FOUR MONTHS AFTER THE BEGINNING OF THE CULTURAL EXCHANGE PROGRAM DURING KEINDYA

TRIAL SESSION I


Judge: I call forth the beginning of the trial against Hemo Kirskis IV.
Is the defense ready, Mr. Wright?


Phoenix: Yes, Your Honor. All procedures leading to this trial have been carried out as they should.


Judge: Mr. Edgeworth, is the prosecution ready?


Edgeworth: Is everything prepared over there, Ms. Rin Ohm?


Rin Ohm: Everything seems to be just fine, you can proceed.


Edgeworth: Then everything's ready for the prosecution, Your Honor.


Keithra: Are you sure we are ready, Mr. Wright?


Phoenix: Don't you worry, Keit. I've got everything under control.
No matter what Edgeworth has prepared for this case, we've got everything we need to prove your friend's innocence on this matter.
Judge: Very well... 


Mr. Edgeworth, may you please present the case to the court?


Edgeworth: Naturally, Your Honor.
What we are discussing today is the case of defendant Hemo Kirskis IV, a former Orion pirate...
who was enrolled into the cultural exchange program managed by Wega Academy, the most culturally rich institution found in the capital of Equia, Equia City.
The defendant is accused of committing intentional arson against a public library in the vicinity of the academy.
Charges include First-Degree Arson, Reckless Endangerment and Destruction of Property under Equian jurisdiction.
Mr. Kirskis was seen carrying a robot by the name of Trinket into the library, affirming suspicions on how the fire started.
Recordings later found that Trinket, while performing scans around in the library, initiated some kind of energy current that burned one of the many books present.
This evidence is then fully supported by Trinket's own memory bank, which we corroborated follows the very same narrative:
Trinket scans some books in the library, the book is burned into ash prompting emergency protocols it didn't follow and the library burns down as a result.
Nothing else to say, Your Honor.


Phoenix: Jeez... Edgeworth really did his homework huh.
He even got to use Trinket's memory to his advantage too…


Judge: Quite impressive, Mr. Edgeworth. It seems like this is a solid case!
Ms. Rin Ohm, do you have anything else to add?


Rin Ohm: Yes, Your Honor.



According to current data available on Hemo's Great Link system interface and his own academy's records...
...it is of my duty to inform the court that he is an individual that is known to be a trouble-maker.
He has shown to not only manipulate the academy's official archives to his own personal gain,  but also has a history of misconduct and trouble adapting to the Meritocracy's rules.
Kirskis' history with the Utam Institute does not support a narrative where he is a well-behaved student with a flawless record.
He has proved time and time again that he wants to carve his own way into whatever his motives are.


Judge: I see…


So it is most likely that Mr. Kirskis IV has at least to do with this incident to some extent.


Rin Ohm: Correct, Reckless Endangerment at the very least.


Phoenix: Oh dear... are all Jusnean accountants like this?


Keithra: Well... it's Urza Rin Ohm we are talking about here…


Judge: Well then, now we have an idea of what is the prosecution's claim, what is the defense's course of action?
Mr. Wright?


Phoenix: Yes, of course, Your Honor.


I would like to call our first witness to the stand for giving their testimony.
Judge: Understood. You may now come in, Ms. Aru.


Gallery talk, Leyna enters the courtroom


Judge: …


Leyna: ...
So... w-witness testimony, right?
Judge: Correct.
First of all, I need you to state your name and profession.


Leyna: Leyna Aru... I'm an Utam studying at Wega Academy... I-I do architecture.


Judge: Promise to this court that you'll say the truth, and only the truth.
Then you may begin your testimony.


Leyna: O-Of course.
I'll tell the truth, no issues there...
…


Rin Ohm: …
You may begin when you are ready, Ms. Aru.


Edgeworth: I concur…


Leyna: 
Hahaha...
(Rift please take me away...)
Inhales and exhales
Alright... I'm ready then.


WITNESS TESTIMONY: LEYNA ARU
Leyna: So it happened like, nine days ago... 
Hemo, Azar, Sathki and I went to the local library of Wega to look for some books he was searching...
What happened afterwards...
It was...
quite bad...
It was burning everywhere, it spread so fast we could barely react to what was going on.
It was so hot in there, I swear I was feeling like I was going to melt!
Sathki had to deactivate her Containment System to run and save everyone she could.
Thankfully no one we know of got hurt... but it was still terrifying.
Hemo told me to go head towards the emergency exit while he tried to find a copy of that one book he was seeking for
He was pretty stubborn about it...
Thankfully the fire wasn't hot enough to burn away my own deflectors...
I managed to escape the fire on time... before things started to become worse there.
Hemo told me that it was already too late for him and Trinket to find what he was seeking.
I know it must have been hard for him, given how much he cared for it and how dedicated he was to his search.
I saw the spark in his eyes when Trinket found that book...
He was so shocked!!
But then happened what happened... and the book started to burn down in flames after its scanners tried to zero in on the information it contained...
Which then rapidly spread...
But Hemo had nothing to do with it!!
It was more a thing of Trinket's scanners causing the whole mess!!
I know that Trinket is Hemo's invention...
But c'mon, those scanners never failed before! I've seen how well equipped they are! It must have been something else entirely!!
And aside from that...
Hemo would never do something like that on purpose...
He literally has no reason to...
But yeah... I don't think there's anything I missed.
So that'd be all.
END OF WITNESS TESTIMONY


Keithra: Lyn…


Judge: Very well... 
Mr. Wright, you may begin your cross-examination.


Phoenix: On it, Your Honor.


CROSS-EXAMINATION (LEYNA: PHASE I)
"Hemo, Azar, Sathki and I went to the local library of Wega to look for some books he was searching..."


HOLD IT!
Phoenix: Ms. Aru, can you specify who these people are we don't know of?
We know that Hemo Kirskis IV is the defendant and Trinket his robot.
But you haven't given us any data regarding these two.


Leyna: H-Huh!?


Judge: Just answer the question, Ms. Aru.


Leyna: Well... Azar Hikami is another one of our classmates.
He's...
probably the smartest guy to ever enter Utam education...
And at the same time the biggest troll imaginable...
He just won't stop pestering me, he does it whenever he has the chance!!


Phoenix: What about this Sathki you mentioned?


Leyna: Oh, Sathki? 
She's Sathki Naeru, also one of our classmates.
She's both my friend and Ky-
I-I mean...

Keithra's...
She's her friend and mine.


Judge: Is this true, Ms. Kas Omou?


Keithra: Yes, Your Honor.


Leyna: Sathki is an essence conversion specialist,
which means that she is very good at using the Art of Essence Conversion both Keithra and Ms. Rin Ohm utilize.


OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: You shouldn't be bringing my own personal affairs into this, Ms. Aru.
Focus on the key information that concerns this case!


Leyna: B-But... It does matter!


Edgeworth: I'm afraid that's incorrect, Ms. Aru.
How Sathki Naeru managed to rescue the twelve civilians she saved that day is irrelevant.


Leyna: Oh…


OBJECTION!
Phoenix: Might not be relevant now, Edgeworth, but it might be relevant later!
(Twelve people?)
(I'll record that...)
Can you continue Ms. Aru?
Tell me... why did Sathki rescue those people in the first place?


Leyna: Because she is just nice like that, obviously!
We are all part of the same friend group! She'd do something like that... 
that's just the kind of people we are!
I wouldn't do it because I don't have the Leveling necessary for it but…


Phoenix: So you would say that Hemo is also a person that wouldn't have the profile to do the kind of things he is being accused of in this court?


Leyna: OF COURSE NOT!!
Hemo isn't the type of person to commit that kind of crime.
He always made sure to never damage any property...
or even anything in his own hangar!
I have no idea where they took the 'baddie' narrative.
He is just a good person!
I'd even go so far as to…


HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: I know EXACTLY where this is going, Mr. Wright.

Judge: Ms. Rin Ohm?
Do you wish to add any insight on this analysis?

Rin Ohm: Yes, Your Honor.
YOU Mr. Wright, want to make it seem like the friend group Ms. Aru forms a part of is benign.
I won't allow that to occur in this court, this is straight up manipulation of morale.
We need to indulge ourselves with FACTS.
Ms. Naeru had absolutely nothing to do with the cause of the arson committed by Mr. Kirskis.
She helped evacuate the area, yes. I'll admit that much.
Notwithstanding this fact, one can evacuate the area to avoid casualties to make one's punishment lesser at the moment of judgement. 
If you keep deviating the cross-examination towards topics of little to no relevance, I'll be forced to demand an immediate cessation of this interrogatory.


Edgeworth: I second what Ms. Rin Ohm said.
If you continue wasting our time here Mr. Wright, you'll be losing one of your witnesses.
You need to learn to avoid wasting trial resources on pointless platitude.


Phoenix: Oh shoot... didn't account for having TWO prosecutors going after my throat at the same time today.


Rin Ohn: I am no prosecutor, I am an accountant.
My job is to account for the fact that the trial is being executed fairly according to Cintrean directives.
I favour what makes the most logical sense.
Mr. Edgeworth, after cross-examination, I'd advise we take the opportunity to press onwards on the defense's intentions
They seem to have tactics of... questionable nature.


Edgeworth: It'd be my pleasure.


HOLD IT!
Phoenix: Before you two even begin planning to question me on my strategies.
I'll continue with my cross-examination.
Judge: You may proceed, Mr. Wright.
Phoenix: …


CROSS-EXAMINATION (LEYNA: PHASE II)
"Hemo, Azar, Sathki and I went to the local library of Wega to look for some books he was searching..."


HOLD IT!
Phoenix: What about Azar? You didn't mention where he went in your story or how he escaped the fire.


Leyna: Oh yeah, that.
He was checking his own stuff, as far as I remember.
He wasn't even paying attention to what we were doing...
Knowing him, he was probably predicting that this entire thing was going to inevitably happen somehow...
Curious how he did that though...
He isn't exactly the fastest when it comes to running.
And Sathki told us that he had already escaped by the time she started to look for everyone that was inside the building when it happened.
I didn't ask him... but he was probably outside of the building already by the time the fire started.
Or at least near the exit.


Keithra: I remember Azar saying that he escaped when nobody was looking.
I don't know exactly what that means.
It could mean anything if we are talking about him.
Phoenix: (Hm... that's an interesting note to recall, I'll add it to the evidence)


Rin Ohm: …


CROSS-EXAMINATION (LEYNA: PHASE III)
"Hemo, Azar, Sathki and I went to the local library of Wega to look for some books he was searching..."


HOLD IT!
Phoenix: What kind of books are we talking about, Ms. Aru?
Do you know what Hemo was looking for?


Leyna: Ehm... not exactly Mr. Wright.
HE DID'NT TELL ME!!
I just went there with him because he and Azar were looking for something important.
I have no idea what that was...
But I do know that it was very relevant to him!


Phoenix: Do you know why he didn't tell you?


He told me it was something personal that only Trinket, Azar and him could take care of.
Rin Ohn: So the mad genius is an accomplice.
How truly pitiful…


HOLD IT!
Keithra: Don't put Azar right into the mix as well Rin!
We both know that he isn't looking to overthrow anyone or cause any harm.
If he wanted to do something like this, he would have done so long ago.


OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: Do not dare bring subjectivity to the court, Kas Omou!
It does not matter how intelligent Mr. Hikami is.
Even HE can be subject to oversight or be a treacherous accomplice.


OBJECTION!
Keithra: P-Please... that's not—
You know that's not what I am talking about.


OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Irrelevant.
Continue with the cross-examination Mr. Wright.


Keithra: …


Phoenix: Sorry, Keit.
Can't help you with this...
But what is it that you were referring to?


Keithra: Think about it...
Why would someone like Azar provoke a mess of this magnitude on purpose?
It just doesn't fit, he doesn't get to have any "fun" if he is behind bars.
He never tried to get in real trouble with the law before…


Phoenix: I see...
I'll take that into consideration…


CROSS-EXAMINATION (LEYNA: PHASE IV)


"It was quite bad..."
"It was burning everywhere, it spread so fast we could barely react to what was going on."
"It was so hot in there, I swear I was feeling like I was going to melt!"


HOLD IT!
Phoenix: How fast did the fire spread exactly and how?
Leyna: I DON'T REMEMBER, OKAY!?
Everything happened so fast!!
One second Trinket was just scanning some books,
the other it was holding a book burst into flames!
Then the entire thing spread in a matter of three or four minutes!!


Phoenix: (Three or four minutes...)
(That fits the typical flashover for a modern building...)
(especially a wooden library like the one they visited...)


HOLD IT!
Edgeworth: What about security measures such as sprinklers and fire alarms?
Do you remember those firing off?
Leyna: The fire alarm went off...
But I don't remember any sprinklers firing…


Edgeworth: Precisely.
You see, Your Honor.
This is why we are so sure that our defendant here is the intentional culprit.
How else would the sprinkles not fire up?
He deactivated them!!
According to the recordings our investigation retrieved...
Mr. Kirskis was seen using Trinket to break into areas he wasn't authorized to enter!!


Leyna: HUUUUH!??


OBJECTION!
Phoenix: You can't prove he was deactivating the sprinklers on purpose, Edgeworth!


OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Oh... but I can.
Take a look at this report regarding Trinket's memory for instance.
We can see here that the machine was used for more than just scans that day.
It was used for remotely accessing the library's Utility Room!

Phoenix: This is bad…


Judge: That sounds quite incriminating...
Mr. Wright, do you have anything to dispute the prosecution's claim?


Phoenix: Let me see, Your Honor.
(Edgeworth's got something solid...)
(I can't really use Trinket's memory reports to refute his claim right now...)
(If he can prove that Hemo went into the Utility Room to deactivate those sprinklers maliciously...)
(and there is no other proper reason why he would do that...)
(...he might really be in deep trouble.)
(Hmm...)
(I need to testifícate a second reason more in character with him...)


Phoenix: I might just have something that contradicts the prosecution, Your Honor.
But for that I need to keep my interrogation with Ms. Aru.


HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: You cannot simply say you have found a contradiction and then not say ANYTHING, Mr. Wright!!


OBJECTION!
Phoenix: I'm sorry, but that is not under your jurisdiction, Ms. Rin Ohm.
I am not violating any Cintrean Directive!


Rin Ohm: FALSE, YOU ARE DOING JUST THAT!!
YOU are stalling time in order to figure things on the fly!!
Mr. Edgeworth has informed me of that tactic of yours before.
I WON'T allow you to proceed with this!!
Or you are CERTAIN of your claim...
 or you are NOT!!
DO NOT rub on everybody's faces just how incompetent you are at preparing YOUR case in advance!!!


Phoenix: My God...
She's even worse than Von Karma when it comes down to procedures…


Gallery noise


GAVEL SLAM x3
Judge: ORDER!!
Ms. Rin Ohm...
The purpose of this trial is to find out whether the defendant Hemo Kirskis IV is innocent or not.
If it takes more cross-examination to reach the verdict, then it shall be that way.


OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: Are you NOT aware of what Mr. Wright is DOING!??
We have full proof that Kirskis’ robot committed trespassing on public property...
Yet Mr. Wright wants to stall to try to circumvent the clearly most likely reason behind this TREASONOUS action!!


OBJECTION!
Phoenix: That until another more likely reason for this alleged action is found!!
Rin Ohm: WHAT REASON!?


TAKE THAT!
Phoenix: I didn't want to use this until later, but since you are insisting I need proof to my current claim...
I'll gladly offer it.
Let us remember for a moment what Ms. Aru said in her testimony:
“Hemo told me to go head towards the emergency exit while he tried to find a copy of that one book he was seeking for.”
“He was so shocked!!”


Phoenix: It was clear that Mr. Kirskis really wanted whatever book he was looking for…
If so, then I ask you both this:
Why did Hemo trigger the very reaction he allegedly was seeking to provoke…
utilizing the very book he was searching!?


Edgeworth: ... !!!


Phoenix: It is very curious to me that he'd be surprised to find a specific book just to then immediately burn it down.


OBJECITON!
Rin Ohm: Don't you dare…
That is an easy enough question Mr. Wright!!
He was surprised to see the book because he knew it was the catalyst for the arson.
Instinctively speaking, it makes sense why he would be excited.
It is the very element he needed to capitalize on his robot to ignite the fire…
while making it seem like it was all but an ‘accident'.


OBJECTION!
Phoenix: If that were to be the case, Ms. Rin Ohm…
Then why was he looking for it AFTER the fire ignited!!??
Rin Ohm: Hrgh...!!


Judge: That posits a good question by the defense!!
Why would he be seeking such a book after the fire started?


HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: What a jokester you are, Phoenix Wright…
Using such trickery to try to gain territory...
I will not be hypnotized by the likes of your ridiculous, outlandish notion!!



Your assertion that the book serves any other purpose other than committing arson is fundamentally FLAWED based on current evidence.
As to why would Kirskis be looking for it after the crime?
HE WASN’T


TAKE THAT!
Edgeworth: Mr. Wright, you are basing your question on the simple assumption that Mr. Kirskis cannot deceive.
I need not remind you that he might be as well be looking for something else entirely after guiding Ms. Aru off the building.
Why else would he stay in a burning library?
If it is not to cover his tracks…


OBJECTION!
Phoenix: You think you have it all figured out... huh, Edgeworth.
Well, let me hit the news to you…
You are contradicting yourself!!


Edgeworth: WHAT DO YOU MEAN!?


Phoenix: Just look at your own evidence…
We've got camera recordings of Mr. Kirskis's own wrongdoings with quality high enough to make up for what he was doing during a fire.
And not only that... but they also SURVIVED the event.
Something that is not typical of a traditional data bank of security footage.
You wouldn't guess how those recordings you've got survived in the first place... right?


Edgeworth: The library had personnel equipped to retrieve important data in this kind of disaster.
We found these recordings at the police department.


Phoenix: No, it wasn't the personnel that got them… the fire spread too fast for that to happen.
HEMO HIMSELF DID!!


Edgeworth: NO WAY HE DID THAT!!


Rin Ohm: WHAT!!??


Phoenix: That’s right… They were confiscated after they apprehended him.
I'll admit you got me questioning me why Mr. Kirskis entered that Utility Room momentarily…
But I've got it covered now.
Ms. Aru, since you are still there.
Can you remind me of the times when Mr. Kirskis was not present with you?


Leyna: S-Sure thing!!
According to what I remember...
He was with me and Sathki almost the entire time…
It was Trinket who was roaming around the library, searching for that book.


Phoenix: And can you tell me why exactly he exhibits that behavior?


Leyna: Trinket is just like that, it is a curious robot!


Phoenix: So... consider this.
Trinket has accessed the Utility Room twice.
Once deactivating the sprinklers, another one for retrieving the camera footage, likely accompanied by Kirskis.
The question is then... Why would the sprinklers deactivate if he is innocent?
Rin Ohm: I pose myself the same question!!


Phoenix: It's pretty simple actually... Ms. Rin Ohm.
It was merely an accident provoked by Trinket's presence as a Cintrean invention.
Lurian technology sometimes interacts anomalously with Cintrean technology... it is a well-known phenomenon.
Mr. Kirskis just wanted to watch the footage through Trinket to get a better insight on where that book might be located…
This is why Trinket was there twice,
the two times he was looking for that kind of book.
…


OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: Hahahaha!
Not too shabby, Mr. Wright.
You seem to be good at derailing the trial on your own terms!
Nevertheless…
What you posed may be based on the prosecution's untimely unpreparedness.
but 'retrieving' those recordings himself DOES NOT exempt Mr. Kirskis from guilt.
Why?
What you posed may be based on the prosecution's untimely unpreparedness-
Because they weren't retrieved, they were confiscated.
You argue that the fact he got those recordings himself makes him seem noble.
BUT THAT'S CLEARLY DELUSIONAL!
IT MEANS THE ENTIRE OPPOSITE THING!!


Phoenix: What are you on about now?


Rin Ohm: First of all, you posit Cintrean-Lurian incompatibility for the deactivation of those sprinklers.
While I agree that certain pieces of Cintrean technology can have anomalous reactions with the Talent sensitive machinery of Lurian technology... 
Trinket is NOT Cintrean technology.


Phoenix: SERIOUSLY!??


Rin Ohm: Since you are so ignorant of the nature of the robot in spite of having the literal creator of it as part of your own investigation leading to this trial.
Let me give you a rundown on what exactly Trinket is.



‘Trinket', is a contraption created utilizing rudimentary technology stolen by Orion piracy.
Such technology does not possess the molecular alignment necessary to facilitate Essence Conversion.
What you are quoting is the unfortunate incompatibility that arises when Essence Conversion technology, most typically used by Cintreans…
interacts with the delicate Talent-tuned machinery of Lurian artefacts.


Phoenix: I-I didn't know that…


Rin Ohm: This discards the possibility of Trinket accidentally causing the mayhem that deactivated those sprinklers at the Utility Room.
Which only leaves us with the other possible interpretation…
He caused it intentionally!!


HOLD IT!
Phoenix: That's a bold claim to make…
Trinket is a curious robot with its own autonomy.
Think for a moment, Ms. Rin Ohm.
Do you really think that Trinket went there intentionally because Kirskis commanded it?
It could have perfectly been just the robot's own curiosity that led it there.


Rin Ohm: RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT!


Phoenix: No, Ms. Rin  Ohm.
Trinket could have perfectly just done something that was well within the rules it was programmed to follow.
This is not Reckless Endangerment because it does not fall under Kirskis' responsibility to fine tune his robot perfectly in accordance to specific Lurian Directives it does not know of.
Let me remind you of the following:
According to the Cintrean archive records you yourself mentioned,
Hemo is an electric and mechanical engineer.
This means that going into an Utility Room, like the one in the library…
is perfectly in consonance with the general guidelines that posits his assistance as Mr. Kirskis' professional companion.
Let me propose to you a different narrative.
What if the sprinklers weren't deactivated BY HIM in the first place?
But Trinket, being the curious robot he was, detected the sprinklers weren't working…
AND WENT THERE TO TRY TO REPAIR THEM!!


Leyna: ... !


Commotion in the gallery


OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: DO YOU EVEN HAVE EVIDENCE FOR SUCH A CLAIM, MR. WRIGHT!!??
According to staff from the library, the sprinklers were in perfect functioning!!


Phoenix: That's right... 
That makes the situation all the more clearer for us.
It was not Mr. Kirskis who deactivated those sprinklers…
It was someone else.


OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: THEN WHO!??


Phoenix: Oh, do you want me to give you a more plausible culprit?
So be it.
Let us review…
Remember when Mr. Edgeworth stated that Ms. Naeru saved twelve civilians that day?
I so happen to have a report of nine of those individuals involved.
If we want to make a case for alternative culprits for the fire... we need to analyze their possible motivation.
For instance... We know that this trial led to Kirskis' incrimination.
So that means that whoever caused the crime would have the most likely motivation to frame someone else for it,
namely Mr. Kirskis.
If we review those who are present in this report,
 those with a personal record of animosity against Mr. Kirskis and his friends would be the most likely option to consider.
Would you like to testify, Ms. Rin Ohm?
I know YOU were one of the few individuals who were aided by Ms. Naeru.


Judge: Is that true, Ms. Rin Ohm!?
You were also a witness there?


Rin Ohm: ...
Not exactly a witness of the crime taking place, Your Honor.
I only witnessed the fire spreading in real time.
I was in the library for the very same reason all of those involved were…
We were a student body studying at a public organization, just like any other.


TAKE THAT!
Phoenix: Now the narrative of Mr. Kirskis simply being another member of your group of classmates suddenly feels highly plausible, doesn't it?
Let's remember Mr. Kirskis is part of a group of friends.
Most of them were present in the library when the event happened.
Just why would Kirskis burn down the very library everyone he knows of is in?
Risking their lives like that seems completely out of character for someone with the description Ms. Aru gave us.


HOLD IT:
Edgeworth: Stop right there, Mr. Wright.
I am tired of seeing you twisting the evidence presented to benefit your own personal agenda.
If you want to introduce the possibility of there being another possible benefactor, fine.
However, that does not give you any ground to dismiss Mr. Kirskis' charges.
Let me school you on how this is truly laid out…
I'd like to remind the court that Mr. Kirskis' is being accused of intentionally burning down the library that day…
The reason for this act seemed obfuscated at first given the overwhelming evidence stacked against him,
but if we analyze the case properly, we'll find the real reason behind the defendant's actions.
Your argument posits that Mr. Kirskis looking for that book was a simple act of academic necessity...
something that was really important to him.
I'll present to you a different, more likely reason…
Recollecting important Lurian intel.
He may not be an Orion pirate now, but his own archive reports still align with the behavior of a rule-breaker,
one with disdain for the established norms of the Meritocracy, just like any Orion pirate.
My question to that is then: how is this connected?
He gathered information for his own family of course!!
Ms. Rin Ohm has failed to inform the court of an important detail regarding my argumentation.
Mr. Kirskis was an intentional arsonist, yet not one with a masterful plan behind it.
The idea behind the crime was fabricated spontaneously.
How do I argue this, you may ask?
If we look at these blueprints regarding Trinket's functionality…
We get to know that Trinket can be monitored and commanded using Hemo's Great Link system wirelessly.
It may seem to the outside observer like Trinket is acting purely on its own... 
yet Kirskis has a report at all times that tells him exactly when and where the robot is,
which were demanded by the exchange program's rules posed by both Principal Morys Sakyo and Principal Iwa Tsurim to ensure control of it.
This means, while possessing information that nobody else could see coming from Trinket's scanners…
Mr. Kirskis saw a clear window of opportunity:
to use Trinket remotely to track everyone around... 
use the excuse of its 'curiosity' to wander about and head to the Utility Room…
enter the room to get critical Lurian information he shouldn't be getting and compromise the sprinklers…
plan the perfect moment where he knows everyone can be saved by Ms. Naeru's extreme mastery of the Art of Essence Conversion...
use the book to ignite the flames under the pretense it was an 'accident'...
and burn down the library, to remove all evidence that he even accessed the information.
He retrieved the camera recordings because they contained crucial intel he just couldn't miss,
as it is direct evidence of his act of treason against his friends to prove his worth to his family according to the known Orion code of declaration of loyalty.
I didn't want to come leading with this because it is not what we are arguing in this court at the moment…
But Mr. Kirskis is not only guilty of the charges presented, but ALSO of Information Theft and Evidence Tampering.
His past as a pirate precedes him, and his family is shown to still have a strong connection with him even after starting the cultural exchange program.
Hemo Kirskis IV keeps being a Kirskis after all, no matter if he finished his mentorship with his Cintrean mentors.
The typical Cintrean honor of passing down 'mentorship lines' did not pass through him…
Even after his mentor Rammur Pyne offered him to avoid being referred to as a Kirskis given the bad reputation the pirates have.
He simply never relinquished the title, even after successfully completing Basis and Synthesis Utam education.
This just serves to prove that he wanted to keep his contact with his clan,
as it is required of them to maintain the name of their formation to maintain reputation with them.
Kirskis IV, that's the name of the formation!!
A clan so feared even the great Naori Command second officer of Foreign Affairs Tedu Kas Omou had to surrender his negotiations with them!!
If someone is to commit a crime like the one I am proposing...
is evidently HIM.


OBJECTION!
Keithra: Stop framing Hemo for something he didn't do, it's not right Mr. Edgeworth!
Hemo cannot control Trinket like you are saying he can!
I-I might have not been very useful for the trial so far…
But I know for a fact how the Great Link system works, and it is NOT like that!!
You are making so many assumptions on things I know Master Tedu can disprove himself in a blink of an eye it is making my head spin.
Misinterpreting Trinket's blueprints terribly wrong…
And then using it to incriminate someone innocent!



Trinket is an autonomous robot by design, Hemo cannot control it like it was some sort of puppet like you are implying.
The data influx you are mentioning just gives him direct data he can analyze and then process.
It doesn't give him full control of its actions, it allows him to assess whether his own intervention is necessary.


HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: She is right about what she is saying, Mr. Edgeworth.
Trinket's functions do not extend to full navigation control,
the robot does not behave akin to a television being prompted by a control remote, it has its own autonomy.
YOU failed to take that into account!!


OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: That is not necessary for the crime to take place as I described…


OBJECTION!
Keithra: Maybe it'd be if your entire premise wasn't completely bogus.
I was in that mission with Hemo, OPS-352B. and I know that Hemo doesn't want ANYTHING to do with his family or the pirates behind them anymore.
He literally rescued me from them!!


OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Oh... is that so?
Then why does the Great Link report filed by YOUR MASTER say something else entirely!??


Keithra: EHHH!?


TAKE THAT!
Edgeworth: I cannot BELIEVE that you are coming here to LIE to this court about what happened that day just to relief 'your friend' from guilt.


Keithra: B-B-But I’m not lying-


Edgeworth: Don't you THINK I haven't revised that particular mission's report myself?
I know EXACTLY what I am talking about!!
The direct source from the Naori Command's Foreign Affairs logs states the following:
"Possible negotiations with the Kirskis clan have been discarded due to possible future compromise..."
"is it of utmost priority to ensure that their affairs do not intertwine with current Command orders..."
"their nature is too dangerous to be kept close, their methods can be deceiving and sway the unprepared."
"Encountered liabilities have been patched, control resorted by Command personnel."
"Do not trust the clan or any of its formations."


Rin Ohm: ....



What Mr. Edgeworth just mentioned is accurate according to my own files,
Naori Command archives posit that particular mission as explicit damage control.
By whom?
Naori Command officials,  particularly Tedu Kas Omou's task force.
There is NO mention of Mr. Kirskis being there!!


OBJECTION!
Keithra: SERIOUSLY URZA!?
YOU KNOW that Hemo wasn't in Iris for NINE galactic periods!!
Just check the academy's archives yourself, I know I am NOT hallucinating-


OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: Those nine periods he was off were stated to be for controlled mentoring.


Keithra: Controlled mentoring by Master Tedu!!
He wanted to follow us because I mentioned to him that we have encountered his family on the series of missions we were carrying out.


HOLD IT!
Edgeworth: Would you look at that, more incriminating evidence.
You are so bad at lying that you are conflicting with your own interests.


OBJECTION!
Phoenix: She is not lying Edgeworth…
the reports simply do not reflect what truly happened.


OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: What even makes you say that?
You know we are talking about professional Cintrean missions of the highest order here, right?
If it is true that the archives are incorrect, that would be considered a great offense.
Even more so if a professional like Tedu Kas Omou made it.
You need to support those claims with something substantial if you want to even HOPE to bring doubt into this.


GAVEL SLAM x3
Judge: Ms. Kas Omou…
Your claim completely contradicts the evidence offered by the prosecution.
It is imperative in this court that we base ourselves in grounded proof...
instead of mere anecdotes that dispute it.
Offer evidence of your claim right now, or I'll be forced to sanction you for interrupting court proceedings.


Keithra: ... !
Ohh…
Sorry Your Honor, I didn't want to make a fuss.
But this isn't just a mere anecdote from my part…
Master Tedu's Security Call Center underling Master Candanz can corroborate what I am telling you personally.


TAKE THAT!
Phoenix: There is the proof that you so much need, Edgeworth.
In order to corroborate what Ms. Kas Omou is affirming...
I'll have Sat Candanz Korr come to the stand next!!


Judge: Very well then…
If Candanz Korr can offer us the evidence we need in order to clarify this, I will let her testify next.
Ms. Rin Ohm, Mr. Edgeworth…
Do you have anything to say to this?


Rin Ohm: I see it as fair.
I have no objections to this…


Edgeworth: We will get to the bottom of this altercation.
But I'll have you know that if you are merely making things up to buy Mr. Kirskis some time…
YOU will be punished severely.


Keithra: I am not making things up... I swear.


Judge: Then we will stop the cross-examination of Ms. Aru for a moment.
Ms. Aru, thank you for providing your perspective on this matter.


Leyna: The pleasure is mine, Your Honor.


GAVEL SLAM
Judge: Bailiff!! Tell Ms. Korr to come to the stand immediately!


Bailiff: YES, YOUR HONOR!!


Crowd noise, Candanz enters the room.


GAVEL SLAM x3
Judge: Ms. Korr, thank you for coming in.
May you please present yourself to the court?


Candanz: I am SCC Naori Command Officer Candanz Korr,  Sat rank sub Seven.
Lieutenant in Interministerial Affairs.
How may I be of your service?


Judge: Lieutenant? Wasn't that your rank within the Fort Force?
I am informed that you were no longer part of that Cintrean ministerial body.


Candanz: It is a common misconception.
In reality it just means that my inactive title within the Fort Force still prevails as my mainline ministerial directive.
If the Meritocracy is compelled to go to war again at any point in time, I am forced to take on the role again…
even if it is within the Command.
Despite that, if I have any duty outside of the Command's official role,
my status as a Lieutenant overrules everything else.
Furthermore, many people will still call me Lieutenant because that position is higher than my Command ranking.
It is a well-known formality, just like mentorship lines.


Judge: Understood, thank you for the clarification.
Ms. Korr, I called you here to discuss an important matter concerning this trial…
Before we begin, can you promise to everyone in this court that you will say the truth, and only the truth?


Candanz: For the sake of the Meritocracy and everyone involved, it is my oath.


Judge: It shall be that way then.
Mr. Wright, you have the floor.


Phoenix: Thank you, Your Honor.
Let's start with something simple…
can you state your relationship with my counsel, Keithra Kas Omou?


Candanz: Keit is under Kas Omou mentorship, just like I am.
While she isn't active in the Command anymore like she used to,
she still is under his mentorship due to the cultural exchange program being overseen by Command supervision.
Mentorship is still required, and Nep Tedu can still provide her with his tutelage here on Luria.
Culture exchange falls under his work as a Nurid agent.
So convenience was ultimately key for prolonging her stay.


Rin Ohm: Rghh…


Phoenix: What about one year ago? What was she doing when she was still an active Naori?


Candanz: She was Nep Tedu's tactical assistant.
Keit is a crystalware engineer educated by him personally to assist him during his travels.
While at it, I trained her in the Art of Essence Conversion, until she became a formidable foe.
The more she travelled us, the more she learned how to operate under proper Command mission code.


Phoenix: Even while being an Utam Institute student at Iris Academy?


Candanz: I know how it may seem too much…
But she did a pretty decent job considering the circumstances.


Keithra: Hahaha…


HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: Mr. Wright! Can you get straight to the point!?


Phoenix: I am getting there Ms. Rin Ohm, be patient.
So let me be clear…
What type of missions was Ms. Kas Omou allowed to be in?
Would long distance patrolling and negotiations missions count?


Candanz: Nep Tedu is an officer with Neptai ranking, he can bring just about anyone with him.
While there are still technically some specific limitations to this…
those do not apply to mentees.


Phoenix: Interesting…
So she would simply be taken away from Iris Academy into some mission outside of Cintre?


Candanz: Fundamentally, yes.
There were programs that were organized by Nep Tedu to take Keit outside of the Academy for specific periods of time.
Why are you asking me this?


Phoenix: I just want to know if you so happen to remember any important mission she did an Elian year and half ago.


Candanz: An Elian year and a half ago...?
There were a lot of missions at that particular moment…
I remember Keit needing to ascend her ranking to Terra.
Which one in specific may you be referring to?


Phoenix: Is there any particular mission that you'd say it was out of the ordinary?


Rin Ohm: Rrrrrrgh…


Candanz: Out of the ordinary…
It don't think I-


OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: DEAR HEAVENS!!
CAN YOU PLEASE STOP STALLING!??
This has gone long ENOUGH!!
Cut the chase already, Mr. Wright!!


HOLD IT!
Candanz: Urza Rin Ohm...
stick to the procedures the defense attorney gives you!!


OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: The procedures of avoiding efficiency by going around in circles!?
This ISN'T how YOU would do it, Lieutenant!!


Edgeworth: Mr. Wright, if you are not going to respect Ms. Korr time…
I will.


OBJECTION!
Phoenix: I have the right to do my interrogation how I want it!!


OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: One thing is performing an interrogation…
another confusing a busy Command officer.
We want information about the defendant Hemo Kirskis IV,
NOT about Ms. Kas Omou's life.


Keithra: I-I suppose it's true...


Candanz: … !


GAVEL SLAM x3
Judge: I am afraid Mr. Edgeworth is correct.
You are taking too long Mr. Wright…
inform Ms. Korr why she is here.


Phoenix: A-Alright.
Sorry, Your Honor.
Ms. Korr, do you happen to remember a mission related to Mr. Kirskis IV?


Candanz: …
(Oh...)
(It's just as I suspected...)
(They are referring to THAT mission...)


FLASHBACK
Candanz: Commander Tedu told me that it'd be a risky option…
But Keit had to find a way to proof to everyone she was an official Naori Command member,
so there was no other way around it.
Everything was simply a matter of inevitability given her upcoming dismissal...


The universe is such a vast place...
I always wondered why everytime something happens,
it has to AFFECTS US in specific.
It is almost like Meritocracy is made to challenge the greatest of us pass their breaking point...
it is intended that way by design.


Hemo Kirskis IV...
A prodigy engineer with a very deep desire to do things his own way...
getting to recreate things from scratch over and over only to understand their function.
He is a great promise for all of us…
 if it weren't for his hatred to the system that failed his very own people and himself.


The Kirskis clan... 
One of the most feared groups of the Orion pirates of the Hatiman Maw.
Known for their constant seek for opportunism through anything they can find or claim their own…
They get their way one or the other…


That being using violence other not...
Even though their conflicts with the Meritocracy had been decreasing at that moment…
That day...


Everything changed in a blink of an eye.
END OF FLASHBACK


Candanz: …


Judge: Ms. Korr?
Are you going to answer the question?


Candanz: …
Affirmative, I was simply attempting to recall the exact mission.


Phoenix: So you do know what I am referring to…


Candanz: Yes.
You are talking about Mission Code OPS-352B.


Phoenix: We've got ourselves a bingo.


HOLD IT!
Edgeworth: Are you arguing that Hemo Kirskis IV was in that particular mission?


Candanz: It was a mission related to Hemo Kirskis because that mission had particular involvement the Kirskis clan.
The mission reports show no sign of Kirskis being or forming an explicit part of it.


Keithra: W-Why!??


Edgeworth: So Mr. Kirskis IV was not there…


Candanz: For all intents and purposes there was no record of him being there.


Keithra: EHHHHH!??
OBJECTION!
Phoenix: We are not talking about what the reports say Ms. Korr.
We are talking about what YOU saw!!
Give us an answer, was he there or not?


Candanz: ... !
Fine.
He was there. 


HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: Are you saying that Mr. Kirskis was taken there AGAINST interministerial norms!??
Explain WHY THIS INSTANT!!


Candanz: The mission involved displaced outcasts...
The Great Link  did not stop us when entering mission operatives and methodology…
Hemo Kirskis IV was under explicit Command surveillance by Amun Pyne.
Regulations according to the Yuhan Mentoring Pamphlet dictate that:
direct mentees can be taken with permission from their mentors for controlled mentoring.


HOLD IT!
Edgeworth: So you are saying that it is justified in your home world to not follow registry regulations under specific circumstances?
Seems far-fetched.


HOLD IT!
Phoenix: It does not matter why, Cintrean law is far different from ours.
It is not our duty to punish those that misalign with Cintrean regulations.
What matters here is that we have confirmation that Mr. Kirskis was indeed there.


OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Ms. Korr may very well be lying about Mr. Kirskis being there so to help Ms. Kas Omou's friend.
We cannot take her statement at face value.
WE NEED CONFIRMATION!!!


Commotion in the crowd


GAVEL SLAM x3
Judge: ORDER IN THE COURT!!

Ms. Rin Ohm, what do those Cintrean regulations say about this?



Rin Ohm: …

The clause she mentioned on the Yuhan Pamphlet is correct, Your Honor.
However, what she and her mentor did…
of abusing regulations to hide his presence from the archives like this, is extremely questionable.
There HAS to be a reason for it!!
What was Mr. Kirskis doing there!??


HOLD IT!
Edgeworth: In addition to that.
Did Amun Pyne actually approve of this!?


Candanz: Rghh…
Of course he did.
Otherwise he would have never come.
You want to know more?
FINE!!
I'll testify about what he was doing there and how it happened.


Keit: Uh-huh.


WITNESS TESTIMONY: CANDANZ KORR
Candanz: It took place at around year 2494 of the Galactic calendar. 
Our task force, comprised of Nep Tedu, Keit and I, was on an important long-term mission…
for helping Orions survive the aftermath of the Norst War.


The Norst War hit many of us very hard,
and the Force's resources were scarce.
So the Command had to take care of the situation at hand.
Many of them were still in serious difficulties...
and needed of our immediate support.


However, that day.
our outpost got attacked by twelve Orion vessels…
All from the Kirskis clan's fourth formation.
They were of the highest order... crafts made to fight military formations...
our outpost wasn't designed for that kind of hurdle.
Their goal... to lower our deflective defenses so that they can anchor an Essence Transmitter,
to promptly prepare an invasion...


They had big robots... almost four meters high entering the corridors.
Machines meant to hack internal systems.
They had a singular objective:
to track someone or something inside…
and neutralize anyone that dared cross their path.


We managed to hold them off...
they didn't have the intent to kill any of us.
Yet it was futile since the outpost was compromised by that point…
the pirates had already transmitted themselves inside to get what they wanted…


Maya Kirskis IV...
Keit encountered her first before any of us did…
Most Orions may not have Essence Leveling like we do.
But the Kirskis clan is known for their specialty at knowing the weaknesses of Cintrean technology…
It wasn't long before her Great Link system was infiltrated.


Hemo camouflaged himself as one us Naoris...
wearing a cloak to conceal his identity.
It couldn't be revealed to any of the Orions in the outpost…
since it could cause problems due to how infamous the Kirskis clan is.
It proved to be quite effective the moment they arrived.


However, that wouldn't be for long.
Keit's Great Link memory bank gave her the information they needed to know he was hidden somewhere.
Knowing that she was one of part of Hemo's Utam group...
she proceeded to take her to her father's vessel.


Keit was held hostage there…
hoping that it would draw Hemo out.


The Kirskis had one plan…
and that was to negotiate with us:
or we reveal Hemo's whereabouts.
or they were going to take Keit with them.
Nevertheless... Hemo informed Nep Tedu about his family…
that it was most probable for them to be looking after him.
Together idealized a plan...


Hemo ran across the outpost, 
hoping to get to a Essence Transmitter as fast as he could…
as this was a ticking time bomb.


He then utilized it to allow himself to be transmitted to Rimmur's vessel.
A big gambit, but a necessary one.
He knew that his father couldn't simply run off having and entire invasion,
as the Commander would do his part of the plan.


An eye for an eye...
Nep Tedu confronted Maya directly, and apprehend her in our cells.
Hemo knew that his father wouldn't let his daughter in the outpost alone,
not after what happened with his son so many years ago…


Hemo told us that his father got whatever he needed of him...
and  convinced him to return Keit safely to the outpost, we gave him back his daughter.
The rest, is history…
END OF WITNESS TESTIMONY


Phoenix: That's a very intriguing story...


Edgeworth: Very intriguing indeed.
There are so many things wrong about that testimony,
from the logistical and methodical perspective…
AND  YOU DIDN'T EXPLAIN ANY OF THE WHYS!!


Candanz: Ngh... !


TAKE THAT!
Rin Ohm: I completely concur, this story doesn't make ANY  SENSE!!
Why by the name of Luthnee would ANY CINTREAN allow Mr. Kirskis to have his identity concealed like that!?
Tell us why Mr. Kirskis was there...
AND STOP DEVIATING!!!


Candanz: Rrgh…
I already told you...
Hemo was there for controlled mentoring.


OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: No, that's definitely not it!!
There's only one reason where I imagine Mr. Kirskis going to that mission.
By Ms. Kas Omou own words:


"He wanted to follow us because I mentioned to him that we have encountered his family on the series of missions we were carrying out."


Edgeworth: There is information you are leaving left out!!

Keithra: Hehehe…


OBJECTION!
Candanz: That is IRRELEVANT!!
That boy merely went to with us because he was a former Orion member.
His knowledge on the Orions was vital for us on the mission…
However, since he formed part of the Kirskis clan,
it was better for him to be left out of registry.


OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Why on Luria would you have someone that dangerous on an outpost like that?
You SAW what happened that day…
You BROUGHT the Kirskis clan to your outpost by BRINGING HIM!!


HOLD IT!
Phoenix: That may be true, Edgeworth…
But that doesn't have ANYTHING to do with Mr. Kirskis being a bad person!!
Your argument that he committed the crime to help his family now falls short. 
Why would he stay otherwise and not go with them when he had the chance?


OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: That's wrong, Mr. Wright.
It is pretty obvious from this testimony the reason why he would stay...
It was to SPY on the Cintreans from within the Meritocracy!!
A pretty strategic move, I am going to admit.
Rimmur Kirskis IV would leave him be so that he would get the intel he needs for his clan...
He would then so happen to have a culture exchange program that would send him to Luria…
the Cintreans' new discovered world full of promises.
And extract information from us next…


Phoenix: Ohh…
(Why does that make so much sense...?)


OBJECTION!
Keithra: Hemo would NEVER extract information from us like that!!
I KNOW that he wouldn't.


Edgeworth: Oh... is that so?
Then answer me this, Ms. Kas Omou:
As the witness of what happened inside that spaceship...
Why did Mr. Kirskis decide to stay?


Keithra: Hgnnh...!!


FLASHBACK
Rimmur: So let me get this straight, son.
You pretend to come here to MY SHIP and just tell me you want go back...
IS THAT IT!?


Hemo: That would be it, yes.
I can't stay here for long... father.
The Kirskis clan is no longer my home.
You didn't even CARE for what I did here!!
Always ignoring me... favoring Maya above me just because she did what you wanted.
If you had paid more attention, I probably wouldn't have even gotten LOST in the first place.


Rimmur: IT WAS BECAUSE YOU WERE FOLLOWING THAT STUPID ROBOT OF YOURS!!


Hemo: That's what you think...
Trinket and I were doing just fine.
YOU were the one who didn't CHECK where your STUPID SON was!!
You should have LISTENED when you've GOT the chance…
but you never did...


Rimmur: YOU DARE INSULT OUR METHODS BEFORE ME!??
OUR FORMATION IS THE GREATEST THERE IS!!! AND I COMMANDED IT!
I CARE FOR MY MEN, MY CREW!!
I WAS LOOKING FOR YOU FOR YEARS, AND I NEVER GAVE UP!!
YOU ON THE OTHER HAND, ARE A DISGRACE!!
YOU JUST DO WHATEVER HOVERS YOUR SHIP!!
NOT FOLLOWING ORDERS, WASTING TIME WITH SOME JUNK!!
YOU SHOULD BE ASHAMED OF BEING CALLED A KIRSKIS!!


Hemo: You know what, I KNOW you are FULL OF CRAP.
You weren't seeking me because you gave a damn about me...
you were seeking THIS, weren't you?
The very thing YOU abandoned me for because you thought THEY had it!
Then... HERE YOU GO, HAVE IT!!
But KNOW that I have encrypted ALL of its information.
You'll last TEN TIMES the time it took me to encrypted it to reverse engineer this.
And I won't be telling you a DAMN thing because don't even I have the code.


Rimmur: ...
More perceptive than I thought.
Well then, have it your way, Hemo. Like you always did.
But don't you DARE calling yourself a Kirskis anymore!!
You are NOTHING now!! NOT a part of MY clan!!
Take the girl, and GET OUT OF MY SIGHT!!


Hemo: Who ever said I were?
Hemo Kirskis IV is MY name,  NOT YOURS!
And I WON'T ALLOW YOU to steal my identity just because you said so…
I am forming my own life, because that's WHO I AM!!
YOU WON'T INTERFERE WITH THIS!!
So goodbye, "father".
May we never meet again…
END OF FLASHBACK


Keithra: (Oh no...)
(We are in trouble...)
(How do I explain this to them without mentioning the artefact?)
(If they know it exists... Hemo's cheating of the midterm Synthesis exams might come out...)
(He could be expelled and kicked out of the program on the spot... or worse.)
(This is very bad... Very very VERY bad...)
(I-I don't know what to do...)


(Undya... what would you do in my position?)


Edgeworth: Ms. Omou, what's your answer?


Keithra: …
I-I don't k-kno-


HOLD IT!
Phoenix: So you think you can simply ask her something like that, Edgeworth.


Edgeworth: Yes.. I can.
Do you have anything to say?


Phoenix: Why... of course I do.


Edgeworth: THEN STATE IT!! FAST!!
And don't make things up like you have been doing.


Phoenix: How bold of you.
So... according to Cintrean archives,
this mission,  Code OPS-352B, was deemed a failure due to the Kirskis clan's involvement,


which we know by Ms. Korr's testimony,  came to attack the outpost.
The question here relies on why the clan attacked the outpost that day…


The Kirskis clan clearly went there with a purpose, not randomly.
They were seeking something there to begin with, strategically speaking…


What that something may be seems to indicate it was Hemo himself,
as he was there undercover because he was informed by Ms. Kas Omou about them.


Now, with all of this information…
it may seem like Mr. Kirskis is in a really bad position.
Going to a Naori mission related explicitly to his clan makes it seem like he has some business with them.
Yet that doesn't make it explicitly ill-intended,
especially considering his history with the clan.


Archives state that Kirskis was taken into Utam Institute education after the Command discovered him in a spatial wreckage at age 9.
He was a kid when his clan promptly left him there, racing after a Fort Force formation instead to get something from them.


This gives us some important context:


The fact that he was abandoned would only mean one thing…
he wasn't liked in his family enough to be cared.
he doesn't a reason to like his clan.


Since his connections with his Cintrean  partners even then were strong,
there would be virtually no reason for him to ever wish to go back to them.


If we consider that Kirskis was transmitted to his father's spaceship at that time…
in situation where his father could have easily just take him as hostage himself.


This only can mean something that one piece of this puzzle is missing...
since it wouldn't seem viable to just simply send him to that spaceship alone.


Tedu Kas Omou is a high ranking officer,
one known to have outstanding record and reputation.
If he considers this apparent oversight to be a good plan to carry onward...
This means that there has to be a hidden reason for it he told no one else.
One good enough to keep it outside registry.

HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: So you have the AUDACITY to frame even Tedu Kas Omou HIMSELF...
as the willing mastermind behind of this whole crime!!?
Have you lost your MIND!??
Are you AWARE how RIDICULOUS that sounds!??

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: No, Ms. Rin Ohm.
I am not accusing Nep Kas Omou of being part of any crime.
But rather explicitly pointing out a crucial inconsistency...
that can be drawn from the new information we've got from Ms. Korr's testimony.
Allow me to  explain:

Remember when Ms. Korr said the following?

"Nevertheless... Hemo informed Nep Tedu about his family..."
"that it was most probable for them to be looking after him."
"Together idealized a plan..."

Phoenix: Just what plan might that be exactly?
And why did they even formulate it in the first place? 
And since Mr. Kirskis wasn't on the reports... then what did they officially document?

Well, if we take a look at mission's own report, it just confirms what the Lieutenant has testified:
We get to know that the Kirskis clan was mitigated due to damage control,
a clear factual evidence supported by the Kirskis clan's own raid against the outpost.

What exactly facilitated their surrender?
 Or rather, what prompted them to leave?
It can't be simply that they gave Rimmur Kirskis IV his daughter back...
They had that battle won.

Edgeworth: According to the logs from the Naori Command's registry log,
the mission was considered a failure due to the damage the outpost received...
which made them no longer capable of providing their aid to the Orion commoners as planned.

What compelled the pirates to leave was a bargain...
they gave them what they wanted.
And then corrected the liabilities by redirecting resources somewhere else.

Phoenix: Precisely.
And now we have the real succession of events, we can draw parallels with it.
Just ponder about something...

Why was Tedu Kas Omou so sure Mr. Kirskis would be the ideal person to complete their end of the bargain?
Sending him outside the outpost would be a high-risk move...
If we just figure that one out, we could even get to know just why Nep Kas Omou took Mr. Kirskis with him.

HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: Hold on one second...
Mr. Wright,  for the first time, you might have just stumbled upon something here... 
Mr. Edgeworth, you just mentioned that the pirates got what they were seeking,
but we know for a fact that Mr. Kirskis stayed on the Meritocracy.

If we consider the theory he was in fact a spy...
then there is only one possible interpretation here:
the pirates gave Mr. Kirskis something.

Phoenix: That's precisely what I am saying.
That WOULD be the only possible interpretation if Edgeworth's theory was correct.
But it is NOT.

Edgeworth: ...!

TAKE THAT!
Phoenix: The fact Nep Kas Omou approved of this bargain himself contradicts this.
He knew of something that would convince the pirates to leave,
something that most likely Mr. Kirskis himself possessed.

Keithra: ...!

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: That simply CANNOT be correct!!
If Mr. Kirskis had something with him,
then why didn't Mr. Kas Omou ordered to simply give it to him!!

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: Because Nep Kas Omou himself wouldn't have been capable of doing so on his own.
Remember that the Kirskis clan came in for looking for something,
and that something was prompted by Mr. Kirskis's own presence on the mission.

Keithra: Hehehe...

HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: So you are saying that Mr. Kirskis' presence was what summoned the fleet...
That... does have some logical innocent explanation!!



We have to consider that the Kirskis clan has the essence signatures of their own people recorded...
for tracking them in case they are captured.
While that does have some limited range...
they were specifically in the right zone for Kirskis' presence to be detected.

If Tedu Kas Omou's task force was in a mission before where he knew the clan's location beforehand...
he could have easily formulated a plan to draw them out.

Phoenix: Would you look at that, even she agrees.

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Ms. Rin Ohm!!
Are you implying that risking an entire outpost full of people...
for a  full-blown attack would be within the margin of possibility for the Command!??

OBJECTION!
Candanz: No, it is not that it we were risking the people inside.
The clan wouldn't simply destroy an outpost for no reason,
that would prompt the Fort Force's operatives to focus their resources 
on exterminating the threat outright.

I TOLD you that they simply wanted to lower our defenses to compromise the outpost...
that doesn't entail a risk of destruction, they didn't want to kill any of us.

I am not informed of everything you've been saying...
if it was a plan drawn by the Commander, it was certainly something he kept secret even from me.

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Then why did you stall!??

Candanz: I serve full loyalty to my Commander and his methods.
It is not my place to question his decisions or his motives...
he knows what he is doing, and he  is fully responsible for it.

Edgeworth: So you would even cover him for his risky moves...

Candanz: Sounds questionable... yes.
But Tedu Kas Omou isn't just some ordinary high-ranking officer...he is one of the masterminds that allowed us to win the war against the Norst.

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Didn't he also help start it!?

OBJECTION!
Candanz: Yes... but that was simply an oversight due to the unpredictable and then unknown nature of the Norst.
I was the one who informed him about the what the Fort were truly making his team do on the experiment...
He DIDN'T create the Norst on purpose!!
He was MANIPULATED to do so!!

GAVEL SLAM x3
Judge: Mr. Edgeworth, it is enough questioning of Tedu Kas Omou's reputation.
His ranking is a subject that demands respect and admiration to us all, unless it is explicitly shown otherwise...

Edgeworth: But Your Honor, Mr. Wright's theory is...

Judge: You have failed to accomplished that,
both testimonies, which are shown to be consistent, completely contradict the Naori Command's registry.
This fact simply cannot stand, we need corroboration of the full actual events of that day.

The defense has currently posed us a very crucial question:
what exactly is that Mr. Kirskis had on him that the Kirskis clan sought?
If this question is answered, then we can formally confirm Mr. Kirskis' real involvement in all of this.
And thus, truly understand the reality behind his potential intentions at the crime scene.

Edgeworth: (DAMN YOU, PHOENIX!!)
(HOW DO YOU KEEP DOING IT!?)

Judge: Ms. Korr, Ms. Kas Omou...
As the key witnesses of this mission... 
do you have any idea of what that item might be or for its purpose?

Keithra: ...

Candanz: An item?
Something the Kirskis clan would be seeking?
...
I have little clue as to what that could be.

Judge: Hmm...
Ms. Kas Omou, anything to say?

Keithra: ...

(Oh no!!)
(Oh no no no no!!!)
(Mr. Wright SOMEHOW sealed the materials shut...)
(He figured out about the artefact without me ever telling him!!)
(How do I respond to this!?)
(I cannot lie in court, CAN I!??)
(And to make matters worse...)
(CANDI IS WAITING FOR AN ANSWER TOO!!)

Candanz: Keit...?
Is something the matter?

Keithra: (I just can't tell the secret out...)
(HEMO WOULD KILL ME FOR THIS!!)
(LYN WOULD KILL ME FOR THIS!!)
(EVEN NEIA WOULD DO IT TOO!!)

...

(Hold up...)
(Neia...)
(NEIA!!)

(She would understand the position I am in!!)
(She even is Half-Hatiman, she KNOWS about the Kirskis clan!!)

(I... I know she will hate me for this but...)
(Who haven't I disappointed at this point?)
(Undya? It is just a matter of time...)

(I end up always disappointing people sooner or later anyway...)


GAVEL SLAM x3
Judge: MS. KAS OMOU!!
Can you please provide an answer!?

Keithra: Ehh... I-I...

Rin Ohm: What, do you actually have an idea of what he might have given him?
Is it somehow incriminating?
OR WHY ARE YOU STUTTERING!??

Keithra: N-No... I...
It's not th-that...

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: IS NOT THAT WHAT!??
Are you going to tell me you KNEW that Mr. Kirskis was GUILTY...
And DECIDED to let us WASTE THIS MUCH TIME!!
BY NOT TELLING US ANYTHING!!???

Keithra: ...! 
N-No... it has nothing to do wit-

Rin Ohm: RRRRGHHHH...
ARE YOU KIDDING ME!??

ARE YOU GOING TO TELL ME THAT-
EVERYHING WE HAVE DONE IN THIS COURT-
HAS BEEN FOR NOTHING BUT PURE STALLING BY-
AN UNPROFESSIONAL AND BIASED UNGRATEFUL LITTLE

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: MS. RIN OHM!! DON'T MAKE THIS WORSE!!
There could be another reason why Ms. Kas Omou is behaving like this.

Candanz: Rgh...

Phoenix: Yes, I agree.
Keit, can you explain it to us?
What is it that scare you so much?
Was it that bad?

Keithra: Ehhh... well...

Judge: URZA RIN OHM!!
I do not know how it is on Cintrean or Luthnean soil, but here on Luria, we treat our people with utmost respect;
EVEN when they are acting suspicious or out of line.
I DO NOT want to see such an act from YOU anymore!!
DO I MAKE MYSELF CLEAR!?

Rin Ohm: O-Of course..  Your Honor.
My sincerest of apologies...

Judge: Ms. Kas Omou, please.
We are in a court of law, anything you say may be crucial for us to reach to the heart of this matter.
What is it that you know of?

Keithra: Hehehe...
Well... Your Honor.
I-I wanted to suggest calling someone for that...

Judge: Calling someone you say?
Who might that be?

Keithra: I...
Know of someone that might just know about that particular item...
Could I... offer to take someone to the stand?

Judge: Sure you can.
Who are we cross-examining now?

Candanz: ...
Phoenix: ...
Edgeworth: ...
Rin Ohm: ...

Keithra: Hehehe...
I am calling Neia Amaritan, the president of our group.

Judge:...!
The president of your group!?
She is one of the victims of the fire, is she not?
Does she know about the nature of that  object?

Edgeworth: Neia Amaritan...
I know this does not favor our official case, but we are here to discover the truth behind this crime.
I acknowledge the possibility of one of our own of our pieces of evidence being false, I cannot as a prosecutor stand for this.
Thus I suggest the following:
We will have a recess to let Ms. Rin Ohm to regain her composure and reconsider our options,
and then we will call Ms. Amaritan.

This isn't over yet, even if Hemo isn't connected to his family anymore, that does not deny any of our other pieces of evidence.
We are still considering Reckless Endangerment as a fallback here, so even if the defendant Mr. Kirskis is not a malicious person...
he still can be convicted.

Phoenix: I have more in store for you, Edgeworth,
don't you worry.
Your Honor, I agree with the prosecution's suggestion.

Judge: Very well, then we have made our decision.
We will have a 15 minute recess, and then Ms. Amaritan will take the stand.
Ms. Korr, thank you for your cooperation and your patience.
Your testimony has been of huge aid for this trial.

Candanz: It was only my duty, Your Honor.

Judge: Of course.
Well then, this court is adjourned.

Defense Lobby.
March 12th, 2022 of the EC. 
November 14th, 2497 of the GC.
Time: 3:44 PM.

Phoenix: Oof... this has been a really tough trial.
It evolved from a simple arson case...
to the whole deconstruction of a high-stakes Naori Command mission by Tedu Kas Omou.
Maya Kirskis IV? Was that really one of Hemo's sisters?
Oh dear... with how the Kirksis clan is, doubt she'd be happy to hear that.

Keithra: ...

Phoenix: Hey Keit! You did a great job there...
If it weren't for your confrontation against Edgeworth about the mission...
I don't think I could have easily built a case against his meticulously crafted hypothesis on Hemo's criminal motivation.

Keithra: Yeah... I guess that's true...

Phoenix: Is something bothering you?
Don't worry about how Rin Ohm reacted, she was immediately silenced by the Judge.
I don't think she'll be allowed to yell at you like that anymore if she wants to keep her role.

Keithra: I would only guess so...

Leyna: Heeeey guuuys!!

Keithra: ...!
LYN!!
You didn't see what happened in the trial, didn't you-
Hahahahahaha...
Ha...

Leyna: ARE YOU JOKING!??
OF COURSE I DID!!
IT WAS AWESOME!!
YOU CONFRONTED URZA AND MR. EDGEWORTH LIKE A CHAMP!!

Keithra: Hehehehe...
I guess I did, didn't I?

Phoenix: No need to be so stressed Keit.
If what you said is actually true...
and Ms. Amaritan does hold the key to knowing about this bargain chip Hemo traded with the pirates...
then the case in favor of Hemo's character is as good as won!!
I don't think even Ms. Rin Ohm can complicate things enough.

Keithra: Yeah... I know...
(Actually... I'm wonder how is Urza doing right now...)

Prosecution Lobby.
Time: 3:48 PM.

Edgeworth: Ms. Rin Ohm...
What just happened there?

Rin Ohm: ...
It... It is not of your business...

Edgeworth: Not my business?
You sided with my case for most of the trial session...
And then proceeded make a FOOL out of yourself!!!

Edgeworth: You can tell me...
What's going on between you and Ms. Kas Omou?

Rin Ohm: WHAT DO YOU  MEAN!?
Keithra and I have absolutely nothing to do with one another!!

Edgeworth: I don't think that's the case...
There was no reason to believe that she was hiding something from us this entire time... 
She was quite transparent about the mission,
and all seems to indicate, as long as Mr. Wright does his part...
that Mr. Kirskis does indeed have no connection to his family anymore. 

Edgeworth: The item in question, is likely to be of great importance...
or even sacrilege.
We were pressuring her to testify about something that could put her mentor in great trouble.
It is likely that she is feeling guilty about it...
I wouldn't blame her for it.
(She really reminds me of the DL-6 incident...)

Rin Ohm: Huuh...!?
...
But WHY should emotions matter!??
YOU pressured people like Leyna Aru the same way I would do!!

Edgeworth: You are confusing two different things, Ms. Rin Ohm.
One thing is to pressure a witness to say the truth,
another is to flat out accuse them of paranoic conspiracies.

Rin Ohm: Rgggh...
...
I'll concede your point.
Are you done mocking me now?

Edgeworth: What? No...
I never meant to mock you...
You just need to realize that you cannot let your own personal animosities to cloud your judgement.
I don't think anyone in your prestigious family would approve of that, right?

Rin Ohm: ...
I see what you mean...

But don't let this make you BELIEVE I am not qualified for my job.
I'll have you know that this trial is of utmost importance to me!!
And I will NOT allow anyone or anything to me from seeing this through!!

Edgeworth: I never doubted that.
Come, let's discuss a little about my options now before we continue.

Rin Ohm: But of course.

TRIAL SESSION II

Crowd noise

GAVEL SLAM
Judge: Very well ladies and gentlemen...
Before we proceed with Ms. Amaritan's cross-examination,
I'd like first to have an updated report of the attorneys' status. 
Mr. Wright? Are there any changes?

Phoenix: No, Your Honor.
We are still pursuing a full acquittal of all charges.

Judge: Understood.

Judge: What about the prosecution?

Edgeworth: Your Honor, while I acknowledge that seeking all previous charges of First-Degree Arson,
Reckless Endangerment and  Destruction of Property may seem outlandish now with what we know so far...

Urza nods at him.

Edgeworth: I will still want to maintain them until all proof has been dismantled.
I believe a case for motivation can be elaborated beyond Mr. Kirskis' connection with the pirates.
However, that position remains strongest until this very connection is proven wrong...
given that Kirskis' history records still paint him in a shady light.

Phoenix: (Knew that Edgeworth wouldn't simply give in...)

Edgeworth: If there is no other option, I will utilize the fallback and argue for Reckless Endangerment only.
Nevertheless...
that is not the case just yet.

Judge: Very well.
Then now we can call our next witness.
Bailiff, please bring Ms. Amaritan to the stand.

Bailiff: Roger that, Your Honor!!

Neia: ...

Judge: ...
Welcome.
May you please present yourself to the court?

Neia: My name is Neia Amaritan!!
I am a Talz Field spokeswoman and diplomatic relations announcer!!
I am also the president of Group C9A, the Cintrean counterpart of the cultural exchange program!!
What can I do for you?

Judge: You are here to answer some questions may be of help exonerate your classmate Hemo Kirskis IV.
Can you swear to this court that you will say the truth, and only the truth?

Neia: Well, if that is why you called me here for...
why would I do otherwise?

Judge: Thank you for your honesty.
Before I give the floor to the defense...
I would like to have some clarifications.

Neia: Oh... what would you like to ask?

Judge: First of all, confirm to the court what it means to be group president.
I have my understanding that it is similar to that of class presidents here on Luria...
However, given Utam education is vastly different in nature as Lurian education.
I am compelled to ask for a first-hand explanation of it.

Neia: Well... let me see if I can give you a proper summary of it.
In essence it means that I have responsibility over the morale and organization of my group.
While the group supervisor, which would be Omon Sava in our case, ensures the performance of our group.
I deal with the more humanitarian part of it.

Judge: I see... to what extent does this responsibility reach?

Neia: I am not sure what you mean by that, Your Honor.
Group presidents only act when the situation is critical...
or when it is required of us to work as a team.
But aside from that...
It is more about maintaining our group cohesive.

Judge: Understood.
Thank you for your answers.
Mr. Wright, it is all yours.

Keithra: ...

Phoenix: Thank you, Your Honor.

Alright, since I know Ms. Rin Ohm won't allow me to gather very much information here,
before we go down to the critical question...
I will simply ask some important contextual data first.

Rin Ohm: My gratitude for your consideration, Mr. Wright.

Phoenix: Ms. Amaritan, how much do you know Mr. Kirskis?

Neia: How much?
Well... 
Hemo is one of our oldest members... he was on the group before even I was.
Previous group president Zinda Yue knew him well back then...
so she introduced him to me.
How much I know him now?
I'd say quite the bit!!

Even though he is closed off and often spends too much time on his workshop...
Even now on Luria.
I'd say I know enough about him to give a good insight on him.

Edgeworth: Hrm...

Phoenix: A good insight?
Are you friends by any capacity?

Neia: Yeah... I'd say so.
We used to spend time together solving puzzles!
Now it is a little bit harder given how different Lurian schedule is...
and his current predicament...
But I know him, yes.

Phoenix: Well enough to know about any particular secret?

Neia: Huh...?
(A particular secret...?)
(He can't mean...)

Neia looks at Keithra

Keithra: ...

Neia: (Ohhh....)
(So that's why...)
(They are demanding to know about his artefact...)

(Poor Keit... dear Divinity.)
(Hemo's entire career is relying on that secret...)
(Or even more role as president)

Neia: ...

(Calm down... Neia.)
(Calm down...)

(There has to be a solution for this...)
(Don't panic just now...)

(You are the president right now...)
(You can deal with this...)
(You have to...)

Phoenix: Ms. Amaritan?

Neia: ...
Yes, Mr. Wright.
Enough to know about his secrets.
Do you wish to ask me about something in particular?

Keithra: ...!

Rin Ohm: ...

Phoenix: Yes, Ms. Amaritan.
Do you know about this particular moment where he was missing at Iris Academy for nine galactic periods?

Neia: Yes, I remember that.
According to what it was informed to me...
he was off due to "controlled mentoring".

Neia: I wasn't really sure what this meant but...

...

Controlled mentoring tends to refer to when your mentor or a mentor in question needs of your service for something important.''Controlled' is a standing for "heavily supervised", a way to say that someone of caliber  needs your explicit assistance.

HOLD IT!
Edgeworth: What do you mean precisely by "someone of caliber"?

Neia: Well... controlled mentoring is not common, it is generally used on profession-focused ministries such as the Naori Command and Rego Industry.
When it is used on a Utam, it needs the direct approval of your mentor and the principal of the academy involved.
it is rare to see someone from on Utam Institute formation to be called for controlled mentoring.

HOLD IT!
Phoenix: Are you sure about the principal of the academy's approval being required?
If so, do you know anywhere you can point us at to corroborate this?

HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: No need to answer that question, Ms. Amaritan.



While as discussed earlier the Yuhan Pamphlet specifies the approval of the current mentor for controlled mentoring...
this particular clause, § 14 Cl. B, was written for application on what Ms. Amaritan said, higher-end ministries.
When it comes to the Utam Institute in particular, we have to go to other legal documents...
crucially Statue 33 of the Yuhan Doctrine which specifies:

"For interministrerial affairs regarding controlled mentoring of students within academic grounds..."
"the explicit authorization of the Head in Command of the institutional body is mandatory."
"Such procedures must then be retailed to the Utam Superior Office for clearance...."
"given the assumed  disparity in skill of the mentoring involved."

This translated means that not only does the principal need to approve of this procedure,
but also the higher authorities of the Utam Institute itself.

Judge: Ms. Rin Ohm, you could have specified on the nature of this procedure before...
why didn't you do it?

Rin Ohm: Cintrean law is far more complex than that of Lurian, Your Honor,
that is why a Jusnean accountant is needed for procedure.

Furthermore, I was only asked on the verification of the validity of Ms. Korr's claim, not on the specificity of the regulation in question.
There is no contradiction found between the Pamphlet and the Doctrine,
the Doctrine merely adds onto it.


I had no previous memory of this particular article of the 33th Statue of the Doctrine, 
since the statue is an entire 144 page equivalent on itself.

Judge: Oh my...

Neia: (Hold on... Ms. Korr?)
(Was Master Candanz testifying before me!?)
(That explains some things...)

Judge: All of this seems to support the idea of the mission being a high-end orchestration then...
Mr. Wright, please, ask the question that concerns us all.

Phoenix: Understood, Your Honor.

Ms. Amaritan, do you know of any particular item that Mr. Kirskis had in his possession that could be highly valuable?

Neia: Uhhh...

Phoenix: We have now a complete understanding of what happened that particular controlled mentoring session.
Mr. Kirskis went to a high-stakes mission...
with the Naori Nep rank sub Five Second Officer of Interministerial Affairs Tedu Kas Omou,
as well Sat rank sub Eight SCC Officer Candanz Korr...
and Venai rank sub One Intern Keithra Vylie.

Keithra: ...

Phoenix: In that particular mission, Nep Kas Omou orchestrated a bargain...

Neia: He did...?

Phoenix: A bargain with some members of the Kirskis clan...
particularly Hemo's father, the leader of the Fourth Kirskis Formation.

Turns out on the mission they carried out, their outpost was attacked by the Kirskis clan,
on what seemed to be a tactical raid.

Ms. Kas Omou was captured by Hemo's, from what we know, youngest sister, Maya Kirskis IV.
Who given Ms. Korr's testimony we know went to the Naori's outpost to find Hemo's whereabouts.

Ms. Kas Omou's Great Link system was hacked... 
Maya's knowledge on the weaknesses of Cintrean technology was too much for her to handle.

This gave her information about Hemo's purposefully hidden identity...
with a cloak he was wearing which most likely blocked the pirate's sensors.

Then Mr. Kirskis was transmitted purposefully to his father's spaceship...
there is where the bargain likely took place, rescuing Ms. Kas Omou in the process.

Given the importance this has for potentially exonerating him of guilt,
as he is currently being accused of serving as a spy for the Kirskis clan...
I need to ask of you:
do you know of what that object might have been!?

Neia: Nnngggh!!

...

Alright... if you need it so much.
I'll tell you what it is from what I remember...

Keithra: Nnnn-!!!

Neia: It was one day when I was checking on Hemo after he arrived from a long mission...
the hangar was open and he was tired, sleeping right on its control panel.
Trinket appeared to be charging or deactivated...
he apparently haven't even had time to wake him up.

I was wondering what exactly made him this tired so... I took a glance at what he was doing,
and there I saw it: A jewel.
A green shiny jewel with a very intricate metallic cover around it.
I had no idea how Hemo would have such possession, 
I'd understand if Urza or Iluia had it since they are Luthneans, but not him.


So I approached the item... and then my Great Link system started to go crazy!!
I felt like there was some kind of anomalous property around it...
However none of Hemo's machines were affected in the slightest...
so I thought it had to be something to do with my system.

It felt odd to me to take Hemo's belonging with me to analyze it,
but I knew it was my duty.
As president I cannot allow such a dangerous item to be nearby,
no matter how much it would piss him off.

I was careful with the analysis, trying to figure out what it was...
then I realized... it wasn't any kind of known technology within registry.
Every time I attempted to run scanners...
it gave me more questions than it did answers.

But then Hemo quickly came in... he seemed very rushed.
Apparently the item was an important object he was reserving in his hangar,
he told me it was supposed to be kept secret,
I had no idea.

After checking the Command order he gave me, I saw his claim was legit,
so I gave it back to him.
I told him to not use it for anything bad...
which thankfully... 
ever since I knew of it, he did not.

Rin Ohm: ...

Edgeworth: How quaint.
There is a glaring contradiction in Ms. Amaritan's testimony...
If that is what Mr. Kirskis gave to his father that day...
THEN WHY DOES HE HAVE IT AFTER THE MISSION!?

Neia: Was wondering the same...

Phoenix: Keit... this isn't what I was expecting...

Edgeworth: There has to be somebody covering up for someone here.

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: There can't be any cover ups here, there are too many high authorities involved!!
This is a multi-step operation by a governmental body, its complexity is too large to be a fabrication.

Keithra: Well... it's not that complicated actually...

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: How could it possibly NOT be complicated.
So that's why you called Ms. Amaritan....
You didn't want to tell the story yourself because it was A BLUFF!!

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: Mr. Edgeworth, FOCUS here!!
Do not make the same mistake I made!!

It might seem counterintuitive at first glance, but the regulations stated are clear.
Ms. Amaritan explicitly mentioned a Command order being shown to her...
which could explain this apparent contradiction.

Ms. Amaritan, what is this  Command order you talk about!?

Neia: Well... it stated that the jewel was being acclaimed by the Naori Command,
and utilized during the controlled mentoring session.

Rin Ohm: A piece of jewelry with anomalous effects is clear to be something that the Cintrean authorities are aware of.

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: But then, if they actually took that object with them...
What was the bargain in the first place?

Keithra: Ehhhhh...

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: We already know that Tedu Kas Omou falsified that report, Edgeworth.
What makes you think he can't lie about the bargain too!?
There could be other ways they utilized that artefact there!!

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Are you destroying your very own argument right now out of desperation?
If there was no bargain...
Then why did the pirates leave that outpost?

Keithra: Rgh...

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: Because of another of the properties of the jewel, of course!!
It has been established that the jewel is something that escapes Cintrean comprehension.
What if they scared them off with it!?

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: That jewel interferes with Cintrean technology, not Orion!!

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: The Meritocracy is PART of Alninam, which is where the name Orion comes from!!
Cintrean technology is still part of Orion technology.


OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: Mr. Wright, we have already established that Orion technology is NOT Cintrean technology.

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: And who said that the reason the jewel affects Cintrean technology is because of Essence Conversion machinery?
For all we know it could have other type of components that Orion technology still utilizes.

Neia: I mean... it is not outside the realm of-

Edgeworth: That theory is ridiculous, why would they draw the Kirskis clan out then?
To scare them off with the artefact?
THEY WOULD BE SABOTAGING THEMSELVES IF THEY UTILIZED IT!!

HOLD IT!
Keithra: Can you two LISTEN for one moment!?
...
Look... I know the reason why it may seem to you like there is a contradiction, Mr. Edgeworth.
But let me assure you... there is none, it's just that the story is incomplete.

Edgeworth: Explain yourself...

Keithra: When I was in that prison... I saw everything...
the discussion that Hemo had with his father...

It was very heated...
They were yelling at each other, calling each other names...
It was terribly uncomfortable to be there listening...

But then I saw Hemo do the offering...
It was the artefact...
or at least he framed it as if it were.
He told his father that it was encrypted, perhaps as a challenge.
And that it would take a long time to decrypt it all...

His father was too prideful to even question it...
He took the artefact...  and disinherited his son in front of me.
Telling him he was not a Kirskis anymore...
Banishing out of his ship...

When the deflectors that had me in place dropped, I instantly lost consciousness.
Yet Hemo told me afterwards why he chose to keep his last name Kirskis IV: because it was HIS.
He wouldn't allow the clan his father had to taint his identity.
He would stay in the Meritocracy and make his own mentorship line...
and that way show his father just how much he cares about his disinheritance.

And that is how everything fits...
Hemo gave his father a decoy, an artefact that wasn't the real deal...
and since his father was looking for that all along instead of looking for his own son...
he let us be...

Phoenix: Seems the bingo game is over...
and we have a winner.

Edgeworth: ...

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: This is just starting, Mr. Wright.

So, to make it clear, Ms. Kas Omou:

you are saying that the Naori Command had in possession  a jewel with highly anomalous properties,
and that the Kirskis clan was in search for this powerful amulet...
likely for corrupting or compromising Cintrean systems with ease.

Keithra: Yeah... kinda...

Rin Ohm: Then seeing this as a big opportunity,
they took Mr. Kirskis inside your peaceful mission, OPS-352B,
undercover so that other Orions do not suspect anything...

since the mission location was within the Kirskis clan's radar...
they knew they'd bring the formation out if Mr. Kirskis was there with them:
a sure way to bait them to attack in a controlled manner, given they couldn't use lethal force.

Then knowing that they'd fall for it, they gave the former pirate, Hemo Kirskis IV, a secondary amulet...
one that would be almost identical in nature, enough to fool the pirates into thinking it was the real thing,
full of nonsense data that would be impossible to decrypt.

Knowing that they'd capture someone to serve as hostage...
likely connected to Mr. Kirskis through Great Link sabotage...
they'd be in the perfect opportunity to let Mr. Kirskis go to the spaceship by himself...

 and there do the bargain to let the hostage go...
make it seem like it was his decision...
and not an order from Nep Tedu Kas Omou himself.

You may think that the Commander would never risk his mentee that way...
but that is precisely what failed about the plan.
They didn't account for Maya Kirskis IV encountering Ms. Kas Omou in a hit of bad luck,
and thus hacking her Great Link system and kidnapping her.

The risky situation was to follow the plan with Ms. Kas Omou being the hostage,
which is why Tedu Kas Omou called Mr. Kirskis to "elaborate a plan" in a way Ms. Korr could testify to us.
The plan wasn't just a mission to deceive the pirates anymore,
it was a  personal rescue mission Mr. Kirskis had to carry out carefully...
while the Commander apprehended Maya Kirskis to ensure the clan couldn't simply escape.

I've got to admit, you've got here a very solid story,
even if it involves Nep Kas Omou taking various dangerous risks...
that's just the style that characterizes his out-of-the-box thinking.

He simply saw the perfect opportunity to do it and he seized it.
Getting the pirates invested in a nonsense artefact is a genius strategic play,
as it prevents future raids from them on the grounds of seeking it.

Phoenix: I couldn't have said it better myself...

Rin Ohm: Notwithstanding this...

there are still clear problematics that can be found within it!!

Keithra: WHAA-!?

Rin Ohm: Allow me to elucidate this matter.



For starters... let me remind the court about what you yourself said:

"Hemo gave his father a decoy, an artefact that wasn't the real deal..."
"and since his father was looking for that all along instead of looking for his own son..."

Rin Ohm: Now let me ask you this, Ms. Kas Omou:
since the artefact was something the Naori Command had in its possession...
why was Mr. Kirskis' father so sure his son had it for the bargain?!!

Keithra: ...!

Rin Ohm: All of this set-up seems very well-thought...
until you start thinking about the pirates' perspective.
Just WHY for the glory of my lineage...
would they THINK this isn't a TRAP!!??

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: Ms. Rin Ohm, didn't you hear the testimony?
It was Rimmur Kirskis' pride that led him to be deluded.

He was seeking that artefact for YEARS!!
And it is exactly when Mr. Kirskis appears that he sees an opportunity to get it,
he has someone from his own family he can taunt into submission!!

Don't you think he wouldn't demand HIM  be the one going into his spaceship?
He simply wanted to persuade Mr. Kirskis, that's precisely why he was the one doing the trade.

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: That cannot be...
it is too strategically flawed... there HAS to be a BIGGER reason why he took the bait.
Besides, that doesn't address the  main inconsistency:
just why would he think Mr. Kirskis is the key to getting the artefact?