FOUR MONTHS AFTER THE BEGINNING OF THE CULTURAL EXCHANGE PROGRAM DURING THE STORY KEINDYA

TRIAL SESSION I


Judge: I call forth the beginning of the trial against Hemo Kirskis IV.
Is the defense ready, Mr. Wright?


Phoenix: Yes, Your Honor. All procedures leading to this trial have been carried out as they should.


Judge: Mr. Edgeworth, is the prosecution ready?


Edgeworth: Is everything prepared over there, Ms. Rin Ohm?


Rin Ohm: Everything seems to be just fine, you can proceed.


Edgeworth: Then everything's ready for the prosecution, Your Honor.


Keithra: Are you sure we are ready, Mr. Wright?


Phoenix: Don't you worry, Keit. I've got everything under control.
No matter what Edgeworth has prepared for this case,  I'll make sure to prove your friend's innocence on this matter.

Keithra: But he seems very confident in whatever he has prepared...
and I am completely sure that Hemo is innocent in all of this...
are you certain that we are going to win this case?

Phoenix: Edgeworth has always been Edgeworth.
Confident... sure of himself...
Utterly convinced that the defendant is guilty until proven otherwise...

But relax, it's always been the kind of stakes I've been up against.
I'll find out a way to crack his code.

Keithra: Hehehe...
If you say so...
(If Urza is not going to make it harder for us...)

Rin Ohm: Mr. Edgeworth, Cintrean proceedings dictate that you as the Accuser must take on the initiative..
do NOT falter in case I tackle against your own logic.
I must adhere to my role as Accountant.


Edgeworth: Understood, Ms. Rin Ohm.
But I don't think it's going to be necessary for you to do that.

Rin Ohm: Regardless of that, I know what you've told me.
If he truly does have the tendency to do what you have claimed he does...
then you have to be especially insistent.

Edgeworth: Hmrph...
Don't tell me what to do with him.
I know exactly the kind of games he plays.

I'll make sure to corner him...
until his "case" collapses under its own pressure.

Judge: Very well... seems that we are ready to start with this politically complex trial.


Mr. Edgeworth, may you please present the case to the court?


Edgeworth: Naturally, Your Honor.
What we are discussing today is the case of defendant Hemo Kirskis IV, a former Orion pirate...
who was enrolled into the cultural exchange program managed by Wega Academy, the most culturally rich institution found in the capital of Equia, Equia City.
The defendant is accused of committing intentional arson against a public library in the vicinity of the academy.
Charges include First-Degree Arson, Reckless Endangerment and Destruction of Property under Ecuian jurisdiction.
Mr. Kirskis was seen carrying a robot by the name of Trinket into the library, affirming suspicions on how the fire started.
Recordings later found that Trinket, while performing scans around in the library, initiated some kind of energy current that burned one of the many books present.
This evidence is then fully supported by Trinket's own memory bank, which we corroborated follows the very same narrative:
Trinket scans some books in the library, the book is burned into ash prompting emergency protocols it didn't follow and the library burns down as a result.
Nothing else to say, Your Honor.


Phoenix: Jeez... Edgeworth really did his homework huh.
He even got to use Trinket's memory to his advantage too…


Judge: Quite impressive, Mr. Edgeworth. It seems like this is a solid case!
Ms. Rin Ohm, do you have anything else to add?


Rin Ohm: Yes, Your Honor.

According to current data available on Mr. Kirskis' Great Link system and his own academy's records...
it is of my duty to inform the court that he is an individual that is known to be a trouble-maker.
He has shown to not only manipulating systems for his own personal gain...
but also has a history of  misconduct and trouble adapting to the Meritocracy's rules.
Mr. Kirskis' history with the Utam Institute does not support a narrative where he is a well-behaved student.
He has proved time and time again that he wants to carve his own way into whatever his motives are.

Judge: I see…


So it is most likely that Mr. Kirskis IV has at least to do with this incident to some extent.


Rin Ohm: Correct, Reckless Endangerment at the very least.


Phoenix: Oh dear... are all Jusnean accountants like this?


Keithra: Well... it's Urza Rin Ohm we are talking about here…


Judge: Well then, now we have an idea of what is the prosecution's claim, what is the defense's course of action?
Mr. Wright?


Phoenix: Yes, of course, Your Honor.

I would like to call Ms. Aru to the stand for my own cross-examination
I know she is my own witness, but I am certain that based on the hard evidence Edgeworth presented...
if she ever says anything that contradicts direct evidence, as shown by Edgeworth's extreme preparation...
he will be capable of instantly call it out regardless.

She is a crucial piece that will define the heart of my defense.

Edgeworth: Hmph... delay this all you want.
the result will be the same.
I concede, Your Honor.


Judge: Hmm...
Understood. I accept these terms.

You may now come in, Ms. Aru.

Gallery talk, Leyna enters the courtroom


Judge: …

Leyna: ...
So... w-witness testimony, right?
Judge: Correct.

First of all, I need you to state your name and profession.


Leyna: Leyna Aru... I'm an Utam studying at Wega Academy...  I-I do architecture for the Rego Industry.

Judge: I am aware this is common knowledge within your world, Ms. Aru.
But may you please describe for us what it means to be an "Utam"?

Leyna: ...!
W-
Well...
It just means that I am an student enrolled at Utam Institute,
the Ministry of Education of the Cintrean Meritocracy.

I am currently in an cultural exchange program with other fourteen students...
Ms. Rin Ohm over there is one of them...
even though she has already gained her status with the Jusnean Tribunal as a Jusnean accountant.
Today is her very first day as an arbiter of law as far as I am aware of...

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: Ms. Aru, do not reveal such personal information to open court without my previous consultation.

Leyna: S-
Sorry Urz-
I mean-
Ms. Rin Ohm...

Rin Ohm: Rghh...

Keithra: I am also one of them, Your Honor.
For the record...
Hehehe...

Judge: Understood, thank you for the clarification.

Judge: Ms. Aru, promise to this court that you'll say the truth, and only the truth.
Then you may begin your testimony.


Leyna: O-Of course.
I'll tell the truth, no issues there...
...


Rin Ohm: …
You may begin when you are ready, Ms. Aru.


Edgeworth: I concur…


Leyna:
Hahaha...
(Rift please take me away...)
Inhales and exhales
Alright... I'm ready then.


WITNESS TESTIMONY: LEYNA ARU
Leyna: So it happened like, nine days ago...
Hemo, Azar, Sathki and I went to the local library of Wega to look for some books he was searching...
What happened afterwards...
It was...
quite bad...
It was burning everywhere, it spread so fast we could barely react to what was going on.
It was so hot in there, I swear I was feeling like I was going to melt!
Sathki had to deactivate her Containment System to run and save everyone she could.
Thankfully no one we know of got hurt... but it was still terrifying.
Hemo told me to go head towards the emergency exit while he tried to find a copy of that one book he was seeking.
He was pretty stubborn about it...
Thankfully the fire wasn't hot enough to burn away my own deflectors...
I managed to escape the fire on time... before things started to become worse there.
Hemo told me that it was already too late for him and Trinket to find what he was seeking.
I know it must have been hard for him, given how much he cared for it and how dedicated he was to his search.
I saw the spark in his eyes when Trinket found that book...
He was so shocked!!
But then happened what happened... and the book started to burn down in flames after its scanners tried to zero in on the information it contained...
Which then rapidly spread...
But Hemo had nothing to do with it!!
It was more a thing of Trinket's scanners causing the whole mess!!
I know that Trinket is Hemo's invention...
But c'mon, those scanners never failed before! I've seen how well equipped they are! It must have been something else entirely!!
And aside from that...
Hemo would never do something like that on purpose...
He literally has no reason to...
But yeah... I don't think there's anything I missed.
So that'd be all.
END OF WITNESS TESTIMONY


Keithra: Lyn…


Judge: Very well...
Mr. Wright, you may begin your cross-examination.


Phoenix: On it, Your Honor.


CROSS-EXAMINATION (LEYNA: PHASE I)
"Hemo, Azar, Sathki and I went to the local library of Wega to look for some books he was searching..."


HOLD IT!
Phoenix: Ms. Aru, can you specify who these people are we don't know of?
We know that Hemo Kirskis IV is the defendant and Trinket his robot.
But you haven't given us any data regarding these two.


Leyna: H-Huh!?


Judge: Just answer the question, Ms. Aru.


Leyna: Well... Azar Hikami is another one of our classmates.
He's...
probably the smartest guy to ever enter Utam education...
And at the same time the biggest troll imaginable...
He just won't stop pestering me, he does it whenever he has the chance!!


Phoenix: What about this Sathki you mentioned?


Leyna: Oh, Sathki?
She's Sathki Naeru, also one of our classmates.
She's both my friend and Ky-
I-I mean...

Keithra's...
She's her friend and mine.


Judge: Is this true, Ms. Kas Omou?


Keithra: Yes, Your Honor.


Leyna: Sathki is an essence conversion specialist,
which means that she is very good at using the Art of Essence Conversion both Keithra and Ms. Rin Ohm utilize.


OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: Remember you SHOULDN'T be bringing my own personal affairs into this, Ms. Aru.
Focus on the key information that concerns this case!


Leyna: B-But... It does matter!


Edgeworth: I'm afraid that's incorrect, Ms. Aru.
How Sathki Naeru managed to rescue the twelve civilians she saved that day is irrelevant.


Leyna: Oh…


OBJECTION!
Phoenix: Might not be relevant now, Edgeworth, but it might be relevant later!
(Twelve people?)
(I'll record that...)
Can you continue Ms. Aru?
Tell me... why did Sathki rescue those people in the first place?


Leyna: Because she is just nice like that, obviously!
We are all part of the same friend group! She'd do something like that...
that's just the kind of people we are!
I wouldn't do it because I don't have the Leveling necessary for it but…


Phoenix: So you would say that Hemo is also a person that wouldn't have the profile to do the kind of things he is being accused of in this court?


Leyna: OF COURSE NOT!!
Hemo isn't the type of person to commit that kind of crime.
He always made sure to never damage any property...
or even anything in his own hangar!
I have no idea where they took the 'baddie' narrative.
He is just a good person!
I'd even go so far as to…


HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: I know EXACTLY where this is going, Mr. Wright.

Judge: Ms. Rin Ohm?
Do you wish to add any insight on this analysis?

Rin Ohm: Yes, Your Honor.
YOU Mr. Wright, want to make it seem like the friend group Ms. Aru forms a part of is benign.
I won't allow that to occur in this court, this is straight up manipulation of morale.
We need to indulge ourselves with FACTS.
Ms. Naeru had absolutely nothing to do with the cause of the arson committed by Mr. Kirskis.
She helped evacuate the area, yes. I'll admit that much.
Notwithstanding this fact, one can evacuate the area to avoid casualties to make one's punishment lesser at the moment of judgement.
If you keep deviating the cross-examination towards topics of little to no relevance, I'll be forced to demand an immediate cessation of this interrogatory.


Edgeworth: I second what Ms. Rin Ohm said.
If you continue wasting our time here Mr. Wright, you'll be losing one of your witnesses.
You need to learn to avoid wasting trial resources on pointless platitude.


Phoenix: Oh shoot... didn't account for having TWO prosecutors going after my throat at the same time today.


Rin Ohn: I am no prosecutor, I am an accountant.
My job is to account for the fact that the trial is being executed fairly according to Cintrean directives.
I favour what makes the most logical sense.
Mr. Edgeworth, after cross-examination, I'd advise we take the opportunity to press onwards on the defense's intentions
They seem to have tactics of... questionable nature.


Edgeworth: It'd be my pleasure.


HOLD IT!
Phoenix: Before you two even begin planning to question me on my strategies.
I'll continue with my cross-examination.
Judge: You may proceed, Mr. Wright.
Phoenix: …


CROSS-EXAMINATION (LEYNA: PHASE II)
"Hemo, Azar, Sathki and I went to the local library of Wega to look for some books he was searching..."


HOLD IT!
Phoenix: What about Azar? You didn't mention where he went in your story or how he escaped the fire.


Leyna: Oh yeah, that.
He was checking his own stuff, as far as I remember.
He wasn't even paying attention to what we were doing...
Knowing him, he was probably predicting that this entire thing was going to inevitably happen somehow...
Curious how he did that though...
He isn't exactly the fastest when it comes to running.
And Sathki told us that he had already escaped by the time she started to look for everyone that was inside the building when it happened.
I didn't ask him... but he was probably outside of the building already by the time the fire started.
Or at least near the exit.


Keithra: I remember Azar saying that he escaped when nobody was looking.
I don't know exactly what that means.
It could mean anything if we are talking about him.
Phoenix: (Hm... that's an interesting note to recall, I'll add it to the evidence)


Rin Ohm: …


CROSS-EXAMINATION (LEYNA: PHASE III)
"Hemo, Azar, Sathki and I went to the local library of Wega to look for some books he was searching..."


HOLD IT!
Phoenix: What kind of books are we talking about, Ms. Aru?
Do you know what Hemo was looking for?


Leyna: Ehm... not exactly Mr. Wright.
HE DID'NT TELL ME!!
I just went there with him because he and Azar were looking for something important.
I have no idea what that was...
But I do know that it was very relevant to him!


Phoenix: Do you know why he didn't tell you?


He told me it was something personal that only Trinket, Azar and him could take care of.
Rin Ohn: So the mad genius is an accomplice.
How truly pitiful…


HOLD IT!
Keithra: Don't put Azar right into the mix as well Rin!
We both know that he isn't looking to overthrow anyone or cause any harm.
If he wanted to do something like this, he would have done so long ago.


OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: Do not dare bring subjectivity to the court, Kas Omou!
It does not matter how intelligent Mr. Hikami is.
Even HE can be subject to oversight or be a treacherous accomplice.


OBJECTION!
Keithra: P-Please... that's not—
You know that's not what I am talking about.


OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Irrelevant.
Continue with the cross-examination Mr. Wright.


Keithra: …


Phoenix: Sorry, Keit.
Can't help you with this...
But what is it that you were referring to?


Keithra: Think about it...
Why would someone like Azar provoke a mess of this magnitude on purpose?
It just doesn't fit, he doesn't get to have any "fun" if he is behind bars.
He never tried to get in real trouble with the law before…


Phoenix: I see...
I'll take that into consideration…


CROSS-EXAMINATION (LEYNA: PHASE IV)


"It was quite bad..."
"It was burning everywhere, it spread so fast we could barely react to what was going on."
"It was so hot in there, I swear I was feeling like I was going to melt!"


HOLD IT!
Phoenix: How fast did the fire spread exactly and how?
Leyna: I DON'T REMEMBER, OKAY!?
Everything happened so fast!!
One second Trinket was just scanning some books,
the other it was holding a book burst into flames!
Then the entire thing spread in a matter of three or four minutes!!


Phoenix: (Three or four minutes...)
(That fits the typical flashover for a modern building...)
(especially a wooden library like the one they visited...)


HOLD IT!
Edgeworth: What about security measures such as sprinklers and fire alarms?
Do you remember those firing off?
Leyna: The fire alarm went off...
But I don't remember any sprinklers firing…


Edgeworth: Precisely.
You see, Your Honor.
This is why we are so sure that our defendant here is the intentional culprit.
How else would the sprinkles not fire up?
He deactivated them!!
According to the recordings our investigation retrieved...
Mr. Kirskis was seen using Trinket to break into areas he wasn't authorized to enter!!


Leyna: HUUUUH!??


OBJECTION!
Phoenix: You can't prove he was deactivating the sprinklers on purpose, Edgeworth!


OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Oh... but I can.
Take a look at this report regarding Trinket's memory for instance.
We can see here that the machine was used for more than just scans that day.
It was used for remotely accessing the library's Utility Room!

Phoenix: This is bad…


Judge: That sounds quite incriminating...
Mr. Wright, do you have anything to dispute the prosecution's claim?


Phoenix: Let me see, Your Honor.
(Edgeworth's got something solid...)
(I can't really use Trinket's memory reports to refute his claim right now...)
(If he can prove that Hemo went into the Utility Room to deactivate those sprinklers maliciously...)
(and there is no other proper reason why he would do that...)
(...he might really be in deep trouble.)
(Hmm...)
(I need to testifícate a second reason more in character with him...)


Phoenix: I might just have something that contradicts the prosecution, Your Honor.
But for that I need to keep my interrogation with Ms. Aru.


HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: You cannot simply say you have found a contradiction and then not say ANYTHING, Mr. Wright!!


OBJECTION!
Phoenix: I'm sorry, but that is not under your jurisdiction, Ms. Rin Ohm.
I am not violating any Cintrean Directive!


Rin Ohm: FALSE, YOU ARE DOING JUST THAT!!
YOU are stalling time in order to figure things on the fly!!
Mr. Edgeworth has informed me of that tactic of yours before.
I WON'T allow you to proceed with this!!
Or you are CERTAIN of your claim...
 or you are NOT!!
DO NOT rub on everybody's faces just how incompetent you are at preparing YOUR case in advance!!!


Phoenix: My God...
She's even worse than Von Karma when it comes down to procedures…


Gallery noise


GAVEL SLAM x3
Judge: ORDER!!
Ms. Rin Ohm...
The purpose of this trial is to find out whether the defendant Hemo Kirskis IV is innocent or not.
If it takes more cross-examination to reach the verdict, then it shall be that way.


OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: Are you NOT aware of what Mr. Wright is DOING!??
We have full proof that Kirskis’ robot committed trespassing on public property...
Yet Mr. Wright wants to stall to try to circumvent the clearly most likely reason behind this TREASONOUS action!!


OBJECTION!
Phoenix: That until another more likely reason for this alleged action is found!!
Rin Ohm: WHAT REASON!?


TAKE THAT!
Phoenix: I didn't want to use this until later, but since you are insisting I need proof to my current claim...
I'll gladly offer it.
Let us remember for a moment what Ms. Aru said in her testimony:
“Hemo told me to go head towards the emergency exit while he tried to find a copy of that one book he was seeking.”
“He was so shocked!!”


Phoenix: It was clear that Mr. Kirskis really wanted whatever book he was looking for…
If so, then I ask you both this:
Why did Hemo trigger the very reaction he allegedly was seeking to provoke…
utilizing the very book he was searching!?


Edgeworth: ... !!!


Phoenix: It is very curious to me that he'd be surprised to find a specific book just to then immediately burn it down.


OBJECITON!
Rin Ohm: Don't you dare…
That is an easy enough question Mr. Wright!!
He was surprised to see the book because he knew it was the catalyst for the arson.
Instinctively speaking, it makes sense why he would be excited.
It is the very element he needed to capitalize on his robot to ignite the fire…
while making it seem like it was all but an ‘accident'.


OBJECTION!
Phoenix: If that were to be the case, Ms. Rin Ohm…
Then why was he looking for it AFTER the fire ignited!!??
Rin Ohm: Hrgh...!!


Judge: That posits a good question by the defense!!
Why would he be seeking such a book after the fire started?


HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: What a jokester you are, Phoenix Wright…
Using such trickery to try to gain territory...
I will not be hypnotized by the likes of your ridiculous, outlandish notion!!



Your assertion that the book serves any other purpose other than committing arson is fundamentally FLAWED based on current evidence.
As to why would Kirskis be looking for it after the crime?
HE WASN’T


TAKE THAT!
Edgeworth: Mr. Wright, you are basing your question on the simple assumption that Mr. Kirskis cannot deceive.
I need not remind you that he might be as well be looking for something else entirely after guiding Ms. Aru off the building.
Why else would he stay in a burning library?
If it is not to cover his tracks…


OBJECTION!
Phoenix: You think you have it all figured out... huh, Edgeworth.
Well, let me hit the news to you…
You are contradicting yourself!!


Edgeworth: WHAT DO YOU MEAN!?


Phoenix: Just look at your own evidence…
We've got camera recordings of Mr. Kirskis's own wrongdoings with quality high enough to make up for what he was doing during a fire.
And not only that... but they also SURVIVED the event.
Something that is not typical of a traditional data bank of security footage.
You wouldn't guess how those recordings you've got survived in the first place... right?


Edgeworth: The library had personnel equipped to retrieve important data in this kind of disaster.
We found these recordings at the police department.


Phoenix: No, it wasn't the personnel that got them… the fire spread too fast for that to happen.
HEMO HIMSELF DID!!


Edgeworth: NO WAY HE DID THAT!!


Rin Ohm: WHAT!!??


Phoenix: That’s right… They were confiscated after they apprehended him.
I'll admit you got me questioning me why Mr. Kirskis entered that Utility Room momentarily…
But I've got it covered now.
Ms. Aru, since you are still there.
Can you remind me of the times when Mr. Kirskis was not present with you?


Leyna: S-Sure thing!!
According to what I remember...
He was with me and Sathki almost the entire time…
It was Trinket who was roaming around the library, searching for that book.


Phoenix: And can you tell me why exactly he exhibits that behavior?


Leyna: Trinket is just like that, it is a curious robot!


Phoenix: So... consider this.
Trinket has accessed the Utility Room twice.
Once deactivating the sprinklers, another one for retrieving the camera footage, likely accompanied by Kirskis.
The question is then... Why would the sprinklers deactivate if he is innocent?
Rin Ohm: I pose myself the same question!!


Phoenix: It's pretty simple actually... Ms. Rin Ohm.
It was merely an accident provoked by Trinket's presence as a Cintrean invention.
Lurian technology sometimes interacts anomalously with Cintrean technology... it is a well-known phenomenon.
Mr. Kirskis just wanted to watch the footage through Trinket to get a better insight on where that book might be located…
This is why Trinket was there twice,
the two times he was looking for that kind of book.
…


OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: Hahahaha!
Not too shabby, Mr. Wright.
You seem to be good at derailing the trial on your own terms!
Nevertheless…
What you posed may be based on the prosecution's untimely unpreparedness.
but 'retrieving' those recordings himself DOES NOT exempt Mr. Kirskis from guilt.
Why?
What you posed may be based on the prosecution's untimely unpreparedness-
Because they weren't retrieved, they were confiscated.
You argue that the fact he got those recordings himself makes him seem noble.
BUT THAT'S CLEARLY DELUSIONAL!
IT MEANS THE ENTIRE OPPOSITE THING!!


Phoenix: What are you on about now?


Rin Ohm: First of all, you posit Cintrean-Lurian incompatibility for the deactivation of those sprinklers.
While I agree that certain pieces of Cintrean technology can have anomalous reactions with the Talent sensitive machinery of Lurian technology...
Trinket is NOT Cintrean technology.


Phoenix: SERIOUSLY!??


Rin Ohm: Since you are so ignorant of the nature of the robot in spite of having the literal creator of it as part of your own investigation leading to this trial.
Let me give you a rundown on what exactly Trinket is.



‘Trinket', is a contraption created utilizing rudimentary technology stolen by Orion piracy.
Such technology does not possess the molecular alignment necessary to facilitate Essence Conversion.
What you are quoting is the unfortunate incompatibility that arises when Essence Conversion technology, most typically used by Cintreans…
interacts with the delicate Talent-tuned machinery of Lurian artefacts.


Phoenix: I-I didn't know that…


Rin Ohm: This discards the possibility of Trinket accidentally causing the mayhem that deactivated those sprinklers at the Utility Room.
Which only leaves us with the other possible interpretation…
He caused it intentionally!!


HOLD IT!
Phoenix: That's a bold claim to make…
Trinket is a curious robot with its own autonomy.
Think for a moment, Ms. Rin Ohm.
Do you really think that Trinket went there intentionally because Kirskis commanded it?
It could have perfectly been just the robot's own curiosity that led it there.


Rin Ohm: RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT!


Phoenix: No, Ms. Rin  Ohm.
Trinket could have perfectly just done something that was well within the rules it was programmed to follow.
This is not Reckless Endangerment because it does not fall under Kirskis' responsibility to fine tune his robot perfectly in accordance to specific Lurian Directives it does not know of.
Let me remind you of the following:
According to the Cintrean archive records you yourself mentioned,
Hemo is an electric and mechanical engineer.
This means that going into an Utility Room, like the one in the library…
is perfectly in consonance with the general guidelines that posits his assistance as Mr. Kirskis' professional companion.
Let me propose to you a different narrative.
What if the sprinklers weren't deactivated BY HIM in the first place?
But Trinket, being the curious robot he was, detected the sprinklers weren't working…
AND WENT THERE TO TRY TO REPAIR THEM!!


Leyna: ... !


Commotion in the gallery


OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: DO YOU EVEN HAVE EVIDENCE FOR SUCH A CLAIM, MR. WRIGHT!!??
According to staff from the library, the sprinklers were in perfect functioning!!


Phoenix: That's right...
That makes the situation all the more clearer for us.
It was not Mr. Kirskis who deactivated those sprinklers…
It was someone else.


OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: THEN WHO!??


Phoenix: Oh, do you want me to give you a more plausible culprit?
So be it.
Let us review…
Remember when Mr. Edgeworth stated that Ms. Naeru saved twelve civilians that day?
I so happen to have a report of nine of those individuals involved.
If we want to make a case for alternative culprits for the fire... we need to analyze their possible motivation.
For instance... We know that this trial led to Kirskis' incrimination.
So that means that whoever caused the crime would have the most likely motivation to frame someone else for it,
namely Mr. Kirskis.
If we review those who are present in this report,
 those with a personal record of animosity against Mr. Kirskis and his friends would be the most likely option to consider.
Would you like to testify, Ms. Rin Ohm?
I know YOU were one of the few individuals who were aided by Ms. Naeru.


Judge: Is that true, Ms. Rin Ohm!?
You were also a witness there?


Rin Ohm: ...
Not exactly a witness of the crime taking place, Your Honor.
I only witnessed the fire spreading in real time.
I was in the library for the very same reason all of those involved were…
We were a student body studying at a public organization, just like any other.


TAKE THAT!
Phoenix: Now the narrative of Mr. Kirskis simply being another member of your group of classmates suddenly feels highly plausible, doesn't it?
Let's remember Mr. Kirskis is part of a group of friends.
Most of them were present in the library when the event happened.
Just why would Kirskis burn down the very library everyone he knows of is in?
Risking their lives like that seems completely out of character for someone with the description Ms. Aru gave us.


HOLD IT:
Edgeworth: Stop right there, Mr. Wright.
I am tired of seeing you twisting the evidence presented to benefit your own personal agenda.
If you want to introduce the possibility of there being another possible benefactor, fine.
However, that does not give you any ground to dismiss Mr. Kirskis' charges.
Let me school you on how this is truly laid out…
I'd like to remind the court that Mr. Kirskis' is being accused of intentionally burning down the library that day…
The reason for this act seemed obfuscated at first given the overwhelming evidence stacked against him,
but if we analyze the case properly, we'll find the real reason behind the defendant's actions.
Your argument posits that Mr. Kirskis looking for that book was a simple act of academic necessity...
something that was really important to him.
I'll present to you a different, more likely reason…
Recollecting important Lurian intel.
He may not be an Orion pirate now, but his own archive reports still align with the behavior of a rule-breaker,
one with disdain for the established norms of the Meritocracy, just like any Orion pirate.
My question to that is then: how is this connected?
He gathered information for his own family of course!!
Ms. Rin Ohm has failed to inform the court of an important detail regarding my argumentation.
Mr. Kirskis was an intentional arsonist, yet not one with a masterful plan behind it.
The idea behind the crime was fabricated spontaneously.
How do I argue this, you may ask?
If we look at these blueprints regarding Trinket's functionality…
We get to know that Trinket can be monitored and commanded using Hemo's Great Link system wirelessly.
It may seem to the outside observer like Trinket is acting purely on its own...
yet Kirskis has a report at all times that tells him exactly when and where the robot is,
which were demanded by the exchange program's rules posed by both Principal Morys Sakyo and Principal Iwa Tsurim to ensure control of it.
This means, while possessing information that nobody else could see coming from Trinket's scanners…
Mr. Kirskis saw a clear window of opportunity:
to use Trinket remotely to track everyone around...
use the excuse of its 'curiosity' to wander about and head to the Utility Room…
enter the room to get critical Lurian information he shouldn't be getting and compromise the sprinklers…
plan the perfect moment where he knows everyone can be saved by Ms. Naeru's extreme mastery of the Art of Essence Conversion...
use the book to ignite the flames under the pretense it was an 'accident'...
and burn down the library, to remove all evidence that he even accessed the information.
He retrieved the camera recordings because they contained crucial intel he just couldn't miss,
as it is direct evidence of his act of treason against his friends to prove his worth to his family according to the known Orion code of declaration of loyalty.
I didn't want to come leading with this because it is not what we are arguing in this court at the moment…
But Mr. Kirskis is not only guilty of the charges presented, but ALSO of Information Theft and Evidence Tampering.
His past as a pirate precedes him, and his family is shown to still have a strong connection with him even after starting the cultural exchange program.
Hemo Kirskis IV keeps being a Kirskis after all, no matter if he finished his mentorship with his Cintrean mentors.
The typical Cintrean honor of passing down 'mentorship lines' did not pass through him…
Even after his mentor Rammur Pyne offered him to avoid being referred to as a Kirskis given the bad reputation the pirates have.
He simply never relinquished the title, even after successfully completing Basis and Synthesis Utam education.
This just serves to prove that he wanted to keep his contact with his clan,
as it is required of them to maintain the name of their formation to maintain reputation with them.
Kirskis IV, that's the name of the formation!!
A clan so feared even the great Naori Command second officer of Foreign Affairs Tedu Kas Omou had to surrender his negotiations with them!!
If someone is to commit a crime like the one I am proposing...
is evidently HIM.


OBJECTION!
Keithra: Stop framing Hemo for something he didn't do, it's not right Mr. Edgeworth!
Hemo cannot control Trinket like you are saying he can!
I-I might have not been very useful for the trial so far…
But I know for a fact how the Great Link system works, and it is NOT like that!!
You are making so many assumptions on things I know Master Tedu can disprove himself in a blink of an eye it is making my head spin.
Misinterpreting Trinket's blueprints terribly wrong…
And then using it to incriminate someone innocent!



Trinket is an autonomous robot by design, Hemo cannot control it like it was some sort of puppet like you are implying.
The data influx you are mentioning just gives him direct data he can analyze and then process.
It doesn't give him full control of its actions, it allows him to assess whether his own intervention is necessary.


HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: She is right about what she is saying, Mr. Edgeworth.
Trinket's functions do not extend to full navigation control,
the robot does not behave akin to a television being prompted by a control remote, it has its own autonomy.
YOU failed to take that into account!!


OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: That is not necessary for the crime to take place as I described…


OBJECTION!
Keithra: Maybe it'd be if your entire premise wasn't completely bogus.
I was in that mission with Hemo, OPS-352B. and I know that Hemo doesn't want ANYTHING to do with his family or the pirates behind them anymore.
He literally rescued me from them!!


OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Oh... is that so?
Then why does the Great Link report filed by YOUR MASTER say something else entirely!??


Keithra: EHHH!?


TAKE THAT!
Edgeworth: I cannot BELIEVE that you are coming here to LIE to this court about what happened that day just to relief 'your friend' from guilt.


Keithra: B-B-But I’m not lying-


Edgeworth: Don't you THINK I haven't revised that particular mission's report myself?
I know EXACTLY what I am talking about!!
The direct source from the Naori Command's Foreign Affairs logs states the following:
"Possible negotiations with the Kirskis clan have been discarded due to possible future compromise..."
"is it of utmost priority to ensure that their affairs do not intertwine with current Command orders..."
"their nature is too dangerous to be kept close, their methods can be deceiving and sway the unprepared."
"Encountered liabilities have been patched, control resorted by Command personnel."
"Do not trust the clan or any of its formations."


Rin Ohm: ....



What Mr. Edgeworth just mentioned is accurate according to my own files,
Naori Command archives posit that particular mission as explicit damage control.
By whom?
Naori Command officials,  particularly Tedu Kas Omou's task force.
There is NO mention of Mr. Kirskis being there!!


OBJECTION!
Keithra: SERIOUSLY URZA!?
YOU KNOW that Hemo wasn't in Iris for NINE galactic periods!!
Just check the academy's archives yourself, I know I am NOT hallucinating-


OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: Those nine periods he was off were stated to be for controlled mentoring.


Keithra: Controlled mentoring by Master Tedu!!
He wanted to follow us because I mentioned to him that we have encountered his family on the series of missions we were carrying out.


HOLD IT!
Edgeworth: Would you look at that, more incriminating evidence.
You are so bad at lying that you are conflicting with your own interests.


OBJECTION!
Phoenix: She is not lying Edgeworth…
the reports simply do not reflect what truly happened.


OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: What even makes you say that?
You know we are talking about professional Cintrean missions of the highest order here, right?
If it is true that the archives are incorrect, that would be considered a great offense.
Even more so if a professional like Tedu Kas Omou made it.
You need to support those claims with something substantial if you want to even HOPE to bring doubt into this.


GAVEL SLAM x3
Judge: Ms. Kas Omou…
Your claim completely contradicts the evidence offered by the prosecution.
It is imperative in this court that we base ourselves in grounded proof...
instead of mere anecdotes that dispute it.
Offer evidence of your claim right now, or I'll be forced to sanction you for interrupting court proceedings.


Keithra: ... !
Ohh…
Sorry Your Honor, I didn't want to make a fuss.
But this isn't just a mere anecdote from my part…
Master Tedu's Security Call Center underling Master Candanz can corroborate what I am telling you personally.


TAKE THAT!
Phoenix: There is the proof that you so much need, Edgeworth.
In order to corroborate what Ms. Kas Omou is affirming...
I'll have Sat Candanz Korr come to the stand next!!


Judge: Very well then…
If Candanz Korr can offer us the evidence we need in order to clarify this, I will let her testify next.
Ms. Rin Ohm, Mr. Edgeworth…
Do you have anything to say to this?


Rin Ohm: I see it as fair.
I have no objections to this…


Edgeworth: We will get to the bottom of this altercation.
But I'll have you know that if you are merely making things up to buy Mr. Kirskis some time…
YOU will be punished severely.


Keithra: I am not making things up... I swear.


Judge: Then we will stop the cross-examination of Ms. Aru for a moment.
Ms. Aru, thank you for providing your perspective on this matter.


Leyna: The pleasure is mine, Your Honor.


GAVEL SLAM
Judge: Bailiff!! Tell Ms. Korr to come to the stand immediately!


Bailiff: YES, YOUR HONOR!!


Crowd noise, Candanz enters the room.


GAVEL SLAM x3
Judge: Ms. Korr, thank you for coming in.
May you please present yourself to the court?


Candanz: I am SCC Naori Command Officer Candanz Korr,  Sat rank sub Seven.
Lieutenant in Interministerial Affairs.
How may I be of your service?


Judge: Lieutenant? Wasn't that your rank within the Fort Force?
I am informed that you were no longer part of that Cintrean ministerial body.


Candanz: It is a common misconception.
In reality it just means that my inactive title within the Fort Force still prevails as my mainline ministerial directive.
If the Meritocracy is compelled to go to war again at any point in time, I am forced to take on the role again…
even if it is within the Command.
Despite that, if I have any duty outside of the Command's official role,
my status as a Lieutenant overrules everything else.
Furthermore, many people will still call me Lieutenant because that position is higher than my Command ranking.
It is a well-known formality, just like mentorship lines.


Judge: Understood, thank you for the clarification.
Ms. Korr, I called you here to discuss an important matter concerning this trial…
Before we begin, can you promise to everyone in this court that you will say the truth, and only the truth?


Candanz: For the sake of the Meritocracy and everyone involved, it is my oath.


Judge: It shall be that way then.
Mr. Wright, you have the floor.


Phoenix: Thank you, Your Honor.
Let's start with something simple…
can you state your relationship with my counsel, Keithra Kas Omou?


Candanz: Keit is under Kas Omou mentorship, just like I am.
While she isn't active in the Command anymore like she used to,
she still is under his mentorship due to the cultural exchange program being overseen by Command supervision.
Mentorship is still required, and Nep Tedu can still provide her with his tutelage here on Luria.
Culture exchange falls under his work as a Nurid agent.
So convenience was ultimately key for prolonging her stay.


Rin Ohm: Rghh…


Phoenix: What about one year ago? What was she doing when she was still an active Naori?


Candanz: She was Nep Tedu's tactical assistant.
Keit is a crystalware engineer educated by him personally to assist him during his travels.
While at it, I trained her in the Art of Essence Conversion, until she became a formidable foe.
The more she travelled us, the more she learned how to operate under proper Command mission code.


Phoenix: Even while being an Utam Institute student at Iris Academy?


Candanz: I know how it may seem too much…
But she did a pretty decent job considering the circumstances.


Keithra: Hahaha…


HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: Mr. Wright! Can you get straight to the point!?


Phoenix: I am getting there Ms. Rin Ohm, be patient.
So let me be clear…
What type of missions was Ms. Kas Omou allowed to be in?
Would long distance patrolling and negotiations missions count?


Candanz: Nep Tedu is an officer with Neptai ranking, he can bring just about anyone with him.
While there are still technically some specific limitations to this…
those do not apply to mentees.


Phoenix: Interesting…
So she would simply be taken away from Iris Academy into some mission outside of Cintre?


Candanz: Fundamentally, yes.
There were programs that were organized by Nep Tedu to take Keit outside of the Academy for specific periods of time.
Why are you asking me this?


Phoenix: I just want to know if you so happen to remember any important mission she did an Elian year and half ago.


Candanz: An Elian year and a half ago...?
There were a lot of missions at that particular moment…
I remember Keit needing to ascend her ranking to Terra.
Which one in specific may you be referring to?


Phoenix: Is there any particular mission that you'd say it was out of the ordinary?


Rin Ohm: Rrrrrrgh…


Candanz: Out of the ordinary…
It don't think I-


OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: DEAR HEAVENS!!
CAN YOU PLEASE STOP STALLING!??
This has gone long ENOUGH!!
Cut the chase already, Mr. Wright!!


HOLD IT!
Candanz: Urza Rin Ohm...
stick to the procedures the defense attorney gives you!!


OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: The procedures of avoiding efficiency by going around in circles!?
This ISN'T how YOU would do it, Lieutenant!!


Edgeworth: Mr. Wright, if you are not going to respect Ms. Korr time…
I will.


OBJECTION!
Phoenix: I have the right to do my interrogation how I want it!!


OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: One thing is performing an interrogation…
another confusing a busy Command officer.
We want information about the defendant Hemo Kirskis IV,
NOT about Ms. Kas Omou's life.


Keithra: I-I suppose it's true...


Candanz: … !


GAVEL SLAM x3
Judge: I am afraid Mr. Edgeworth is correct.
You are taking too long Mr. Wright…
inform Ms. Korr why she is here.


Phoenix: A-Alright.
Sorry, Your Honor.
Ms. Korr, do you happen to remember a mission related to Mr. Kirskis IV?


Candanz: …
(Oh...)
(It's just as I suspected...)
(They are referring to THAT mission...)


FLASHBACK (CANDANZ'S PERSPECTIVE, OUTSIDE COURTROOM)
Candanz: Commander Tedu told me that it'd be a risky option…
But Keit had to find a way to proof to everyone she was an official Naori Command member,
so there was no other way around it.
Everything was simply a matter of inevitability given her upcoming dismissal...


The universe is such a vast place...
I always wondered why every time something happens,
it has to AFFECTS US in specific.
It is almost like Meritocracy is made to challenge the greatest of us pass their breaking point...
it is intended that way by design.


Hemo Kirskis IV...
A prodigy engineer with a very deep desire to do things his own way...
getting to recreate things from scratch over and over only to understand their function.
He is a great promise for all of us…
 if it weren't for his hatred to the system that failed his very own people and himself.


The Kirskis clan...
One of the most feared groups of the Orion pirates of the Hatiman Maw.
Known for their constant seek for opportunism through anything they can find or claim their own…
They get their way one or the other…


That being using violence other not...
Even though their conflicts with the Meritocracy had been decreasing at that moment…
That day...


Everything changed in a blink of an eye.
END OF FLASHBACK


Candanz: …


Judge: Ms. Korr?
Are you going to answer the question?


Candanz: …
Affirmative, I was simply attempting to recall the exact mission.


Phoenix: So you do know what I am referring to…


Candanz: Yes.
You are talking about Mission Code OPS-352B.


Phoenix: We've got ourselves a bingo.


HOLD IT!
Edgeworth: Are you arguing that Hemo Kirskis IV was in that particular mission?


Candanz: It was a mission related to Hemo Kirskis because that mission had particular involvement the Kirskis clan.
The mission reports show no sign of Kirskis being or forming an explicit part of it.


Keithra: W-Why!??


Edgeworth: So Mr. Kirskis IV was not there…


Candanz: For all intents and purposes there was no record of him being there.


Keithra: EHHHHH!??
OBJECTION!
Phoenix: We are not talking about what the reports say Ms. Korr.
We are talking about what YOU saw!!
Give us an answer, was he there or not?


Candanz: ... !
Fine.
He was there.


HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: Are you saying that Mr. Kirskis was taken there AGAINST interministerial norms!??
Explain WHY THIS INSTANT!!


Candanz: The mission involved displaced outcasts...
The Great Link  did not stop us when entering mission operatives and methodology…
Hemo Kirskis IV was under explicit Command surveillance by Amun Pyne.
Regulations according to the Yuhan Mentoring Pamphlet dictate that:
direct mentees can be taken with permission from their mentors for controlled mentoring.


HOLD IT!
Edgeworth: So you are saying that it is justified in your home world to not follow registry regulations under specific circumstances?
Seems far-fetched.


HOLD IT!
Phoenix: It does not matter why, Cintrean law is far different from ours.
It is not our duty to punish those that misalign with Cintrean regulations.
What matters here is that we have confirmation that Mr. Kirskis was indeed there.


OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Ms. Korr may very well be lying about Mr. Kirskis being there so to help Ms. Kas Omou's friend.
We cannot take her statement at face value.
WE NEED CONFIRMATION!!!


Commotion in the crowd


GAVEL SLAM x3
Judge: ORDER IN THE COURT!!

Ms. Rin Ohm, what do those Cintrean regulations say about this?



Rin Ohm: …

The clause she mentioned on the Yuhan Pamphlet is correct, Your Honor.
However, what she and her mentor did…
of abusing regulations to hide his presence from the archives like this, is extremely questionable.
There HAS to be a reason for it!!
What was Mr. Kirskis doing there!??


HOLD IT!
Edgeworth: In addition to that.
Did Amun Pyne actually approve of this!?


Candanz: Rghh…
Of course he did.
Otherwise he would have never come.
You want to know more?
FINE!!
I'll testify about what he was doing there and how it happened.


Keit: Uh-huh.


WITNESS TESTIMONY: CANDANZ KORR
Candanz: It took place at around year 2494 of the Galactic calendar.
Our task force, comprised of Nep Tedu, Keit and I, was on an important long-term mission…
for helping Orions survive the aftermath of the Norst War.


The Norst War hit many of us very hard,
and the Force's resources were scarce.
So the Command had to take care of the situation at hand.
Many of them were still in serious difficulties...
and needed of our immediate support.


However, that day.
our outpost got attacked by twelve Orion vessels…
All from the Kirskis clan's fourth formation.
They were of the highest order... crafts made to fight military formations...
our outpost wasn't designed for that kind of hurdle.
Their goal... to lower our deflective defenses so that they can anchor an Essence Transmitter,
to promptly prepare an invasion...


They had big robots... almost four meters high entering the corridors.
Machines meant to hack internal systems.
They had a singular objective:
to track someone or something inside…
and neutralize anyone that dared cross their path.


We managed to hold them off...
they didn't have the intent to kill any of us.
Yet it was futile since the outpost was compromised by that point…
the pirates had already transmitted themselves inside to get what they wanted…


Maya Kirskis IV...
Keit encountered her first before any of us did…
Most Orions may not have Essence Leveling like we do.
But the Kirskis clan is known for their specialty at knowing the weaknesses of Cintrean technology…
It wasn't long before her Great Link system was infiltrated.


Hemo camouflaged himself as one us Naoris...
wearing a cloak to conceal his identity.
It couldn't be revealed to any of the Orions in the outpost…
since it could cause problems due to how infamous the Kirskis clan is.
It proved to be quite effective the moment they arrived.


However, that wouldn't be for long.
Keit's Great Link memory bank gave her the information they needed to know he was hidden somewhere.
Knowing that she was one of part of Hemo's Utam group...
she proceeded to take her to her father's vessel.


Keit was held hostage there…
hoping that it would draw Hemo out.


The Kirskis had one plan…
and that was to negotiate with us:
or we reveal Hemo's whereabouts.
or they were going to take Keit with them.
Nevertheless... Hemo informed Nep Tedu about his family…
that it was most probable for them to be looking after him.
Together idealized a plan...


Hemo ran across the outpost,
hoping to get to a Essence Transmitter as fast as he could…
as this was a ticking time bomb.


He then utilized it to allow himself to be transmitted to Rimmur's vessel.
A big gambit, but a necessary one.
He knew that his father couldn't simply run off having and entire invasion,
as the Commander would do his part of the plan.


An eye for an eye...
Nep Tedu confronted Maya directly, and apprehend her in our cells.
Hemo knew that his father wouldn't let his daughter in the outpost alone,
not after what happened with his son so many years ago…


Hemo told us that his father got whatever he needed of him...
and  convinced him to return Keit safely to the outpost, we gave him back his daughter.
The rest, is history…
END OF WITNESS TESTIMONY


Phoenix: That's a very intriguing story...


Edgeworth: Very intriguing indeed.
There are so many things wrong about that testimony,
from the logistical and methodical perspective…
AND  YOU DIDN'T EXPLAIN ANY OF THE WHYS!!


Candanz: Ngh... !


TAKE THAT!
Rin Ohm: I completely concur, this story doesn't make ANY  SENSE!!
Why by the name of Luthnee would ANY CINTREAN allow Mr. Kirskis to have his identity concealed like that!?
Tell us why Mr. Kirskis was there...
AND STOP DEVIATING!!!


Candanz: Rrgh…
I already told you...
Hemo was there for controlled mentoring.


OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: No, that's definitely not it!!
There's only one reason where I imagine Mr. Kirskis going to that mission.
By Ms. Kas Omou own words:


"He wanted to follow us because I mentioned to him that we have encountered his family on the series of missions we were carrying out."


Edgeworth: There is information you are leaving left out!!

Keithra: Hehehe…


OBJECTION!
Candanz: That is IRRELEVANT!!
That boy merely went to with us because he was a former Orion member.
His knowledge on the Orions was vital for us on the mission…
However, since he formed part of the Kirskis clan,
it was better for him to be left out of registry.


OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Why on Luria would you have someone that dangerous on an outpost like that?
You SAW what happened that day…
You BROUGHT the Kirskis clan to your outpost by BRINGING HIM!!


HOLD IT!
Phoenix: That may be true, Edgeworth…
But that doesn't have ANYTHING to do with Mr. Kirskis being a bad person!!
Your argument that he committed the crime to help his family now falls short.
Why would he stay otherwise and not go with them when he had the chance?


OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: That's wrong, Mr. Wright.
It is pretty obvious from this testimony the reason why he would stay...
It was to SPY on the Cintreans from within the Meritocracy!!
A pretty strategic move, I am going to admit.
Rimmur Kirskis IV would leave him be so that he would get the intel he needs for his clan...
He would then so happen to have a culture exchange program that would send him to Luria…
the Cintreans' new discovered world full of promises.
And extract information from us next…


Phoenix: Ohh…
(Why does that make so much sense...?)


OBJECTION!
Keithra: Hemo would NEVER extract information from us like that!!
I KNOW that he wouldn't.


Edgeworth: Oh... is that so?
Then answer me this, Ms. Kas Omou:
As the witness of what happened inside that spaceship...
Why did Mr. Kirskis decide to stay?


Keithra: Hgnnh...!!


(KEIT'S PERSPECTIVE, OUTSIDE COURTROOM)
Rimmur: So let me get this straight, son.
You pretend to come here to MY SHIP and just tell me you want go back...
IS THAT IT!?


Hemo: That would be it, yes.
I can't stay here for long... father.
The Kirskis clan is no longer my home.
You didn't even CARE for what I did here!!
Always ignoring me... favoring Maya above me just because she did what you wanted.
If you had paid more attention, I probably wouldn't have even gotten LOST in the first place.


Rimmur: IT WAS BECAUSE YOU WERE FOLLOWING THAT STUPID ROBOT OF YOURS!!


Hemo: That's what you think...
Trinket and I were doing just fine.
YOU were the one who didn't CHECK where your STUPID SON was!!
You should have LISTENED when you've GOT the chance…
but you never did...


Rimmur: YOU DARE INSULT OUR METHODS BEFORE ME!??
OUR FORMATION IS THE GREATEST THERE IS!!! AND I COMMANDED IT!
I CARE FOR MY MEN, MY CREW!!
I WAS LOOKING FOR YOU FOR YEARS, AND I NEVER GAVE UP!!
YOU ON THE OTHER HAND, ARE A DISGRACE!!
YOU JUST DO WHATEVER HOVERS YOUR SHIP!!
NOT FOLLOWING ORDERS, WASTING TIME WITH SOME JUNK!!
YOU SHOULD BE ASHAMED OF BEING CALLED A KIRSKIS!!


Hemo: You know what, I KNOW you are FULL OF CRAP.
You weren't seeking me because you gave a damn about me...
you were seeking THIS, weren't you?
The very thing YOU abandoned me for because you thought THEY had it!
Then... HERE YOU GO, HAVE IT!!
But KNOW that I have encrypted ALL of its information.
You'll last TEN TIMES the time it took me to encrypted it to reverse engineer this.
And I won't be telling you a DAMN thing because don't even I have the code.


Rimmur: ...
More perceptive than I thought.
Well then, have it your way, Hemo. Like you always did.
But don't you DARE calling yourself a Kirskis anymore!!
You are NOTHING now!! NOT a part of MY clan!!
Take the girl, and GET OUT OF MY SIGHT!!


Hemo: Who ever said I were?
Hemo Kirskis IV is MY name,  NOT YOURS!
And I WON'T ALLOW YOU to steal my identity just because you said so…
I am forming my own life, because that's WHO I AM!!
YOU WON'T INTERFERE WITH THIS!!
So goodbye, "father".
May we never meet again…
END OF FLASHBACK


Keithra: (Oh no...)
(We are in trouble...)
(How do I explain this to them without mentioning the artefact?)
(If they know it exists... Hemo's cheating of the midterm Synthesis exams might come out...)
(He could be expelled and kicked out of the program on the spot... or worse.)
(This is very bad... Very very VERY bad...)
(I-I don't know what to do...)


(Undya... what would you do in my position?)


Edgeworth: Ms. Omou, what's your answer?


Keithra: …
I-I don't k-kno-


HOLD IT!
Phoenix: So you think you can simply ask her something like that, Edgeworth.


Edgeworth: Yes.. I can.
Do you have anything to say?


Phoenix: Why... of course I do.


Edgeworth: THEN STATE IT!! FAST!!
And don't make things up like you have been doing.


Phoenix: How bold of you.
So... according to Cintrean archives,
this mission,  Code OPS-352B, was deemed a failure due to the Kirskis clan's involvement,


which we know by Ms. Korr's testimony,  came to attack the outpost.
The question here relies on why the clan attacked the outpost that day…


The Kirskis clan clearly went there with a purpose, not randomly.
They were seeking something there to begin with, strategically speaking…


What that something may be seems to indicate it was Hemo himself,
as he was there undercover because he was informed by Ms. Kas Omou about them.


Now, with all of this information…
it may seem like Mr. Kirskis is in a really bad position.
Going to a Naori mission related explicitly to his clan makes it seem like he has some business with them.
Yet that doesn't make it explicitly ill-intended,
especially considering his history with the clan.


Archives state that Kirskis was taken into Utam Institute education after the Command discovered him in a spatial wreckage at age 9.
He was a kid when his clan promptly left him there, racing after a Fort Force formation instead to get something from them.


This gives us some important context:


The fact that he was abandoned would only mean one thing…
he wasn't liked in his family enough to be cared.
he doesn't a reason to like his clan.


Since his connections with his Cintrean  partners even then were strong,
there would be virtually no reason for him to ever wish to go back to them.


If we consider that Kirskis was transmitted to his father's spaceship at that time…
in situation where his father could have easily just take him as hostage himself.


This only can mean something that one piece of this puzzle is missing...
since it wouldn't seem viable to just simply send him to that spaceship alone.


Tedu Kas Omou is a high ranking officer,
one known to have outstanding record and reputation.
If he considers this apparent oversight to be a good plan to carry onward...
This means that there has to be a hidden reason for it he told no one else.
One good enough to keep it outside registry.

HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: So you have the AUDACITY to frame even Tedu Kas Omou HIMSELF...
as the willing mastermind behind of this whole crime!!?
Have you lost your MIND!??
Are you AWARE how RIDICULOUS that sounds!??

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: No, Ms. Rin Ohm.
I am not accusing Nep Kas Omou of being part of any crime.
But rather explicitly pointing out a crucial inconsistency...
that can be drawn from the new information we've got from Ms. Korr's testimony.
Allow me to  explain:

Remember when Ms. Korr said the following?

"Nevertheless... Hemo informed Nep Tedu about his family..."
"that it was most probable for them to be looking after him."
"Together idealized a plan..."

Phoenix: Just what plan might that be exactly?
And why did they even formulate it in the first place?
And since Mr. Kirskis wasn't on the reports... then what did they officially document?

Well, if we take a look at mission's own report, it just confirms what the Lieutenant has testified:
We get to know that the Kirskis clan was mitigated due to damage control,
a clear factual evidence supported by the Kirskis clan's own raid against the outpost.

What exactly facilitated their surrender?
 Or rather, what prompted them to leave?
It can't be simply that they gave Rimmur Kirskis IV his daughter back...
They had that battle won.

Edgeworth: According to the logs from the Naori Command's registry log,
the mission was considered a failure due to the damage the outpost received...
which made them no longer capable of providing their aid to the Orion commoners as planned.

What compelled the pirates to leave was a bargain...
they gave them what they wanted.
And then corrected the liabilities by redirecting resources somewhere else.

Phoenix: Precisely.
And now we have the real succession of events, we can draw parallels with it.
Just ponder about something...

Why was Tedu Kas Omou so sure Mr. Kirskis would be the ideal person to complete their end of the bargain?
Sending him outside the outpost would be a high-risk move...
If we just figure that one out, we could even get to know just why Nep Kas Omou took Mr. Kirskis with him.

HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: Hold on one second...
Mr. Wright,  for the first time, you might have just stumbled upon something here...
Mr. Edgeworth, you just mentioned that the pirates got what they were seeking,
but we know for a fact that Mr. Kirskis stayed on the Meritocracy.

If we consider the theory he was in fact a spy...
then there is only one possible interpretation here:
the pirates gave Mr. Kirskis something.

Phoenix: That's precisely what I am saying.
That WOULD be the only possible interpretation if Edgeworth's theory was correct.
But it is NOT.

Edgeworth: ...!

TAKE THAT!
Phoenix: The fact Nep Kas Omou approved of this bargain himself contradicts this.
He knew of something that would convince the pirates to leave,
something that most likely Mr. Kirskis himself possessed.

Keithra: ...!

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: That simply CANNOT be correct!!
If Mr. Kirskis had something with him,
then why didn't Mr. Kas Omou ordered to simply give it to him!!

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: Because Nep Kas Omou himself wouldn't have been capable of doing so on his own.
Remember that the Kirskis clan came in for looking for something,
and that something was prompted by Mr. Kirskis's own presence on the mission.

Keithra: Hehehe...

HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: So you are saying that Mr. Kirskis' presence was what summoned the fleet...
That... does have some logical innocent explanation!!



We have to consider that the Kirskis clan has the essence signatures of their own people recorded...
for tracking them in case they are captured.
While that does have some limited range...
they were specifically in the right zone for Kirskis' presence to be detected.

If Tedu Kas Omou's task force was in a mission before where he knew the clan's location beforehand...
he could have easily formulated a plan to draw them out.

Phoenix: Would you look at that, even she agrees.

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Ms. Rin Ohm!!
Are you implying that risking an entire outpost full of people...
for a  full-blown attack would be within the margin of possibility for the Command!??

OBJECTION!
Candanz: No, it is not that it we were risking the people inside.
The clan wouldn't simply destroy an outpost for no reason,
that would prompt the Fort Force's operatives to focus their resources
on exterminating the threat outright.

I TOLD you that they simply wanted to lower our defenses to compromise the outpost...
that doesn't entail a risk of destruction, they didn't want to kill any of us.

I am not informed of everything you've been saying...
if it was a plan drawn by the Commander, it was certainly something he kept secret even from me.

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Then why did you stall!??

Candanz: I serve full loyalty to my Commander and his methods.
It is not my place to question his decisions or his motives...
he knows what he is doing, and he  is fully responsible for it.

Edgeworth: So you would even cover him for his risky moves...

Candanz: Sounds questionable... yes.
But Tedu Kas Omou isn't just some ordinary high-ranking officer...he is one of the masterminds that allowed us to win the war against the Norst.

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Didn't he also help start it!?

OBJECTION!
Candanz: Yes... but that was simply an oversight due to the unpredictable and then unknown nature of the Norst.
I was the one who informed him about the what the Fort were truly making his team do on the experiment...
He DIDN'T create the Norst on purpose!!
He was MANIPULATED to do so!!

GAVEL SLAM x3
Judge: Mr. Edgeworth, it is enough questioning of Tedu Kas Omou's reputation.
His ranking is a subject that demands respect and admiration to us all, unless it is explicitly shown otherwise...

Edgeworth: But Your Honor, Mr. Wright's theory is...

Judge: You have failed to accomplished that,
both testimonies, which are shown to be consistent, completely contradict the Naori Command's registry.
This fact simply cannot stand, we need corroboration of the full actual events of that day.

The defense has currently posed us a very crucial question:
what exactly is that Mr. Kirskis had on him that the Kirskis clan sought?
If this question is answered, then we can formally confirm Mr. Kirskis' real involvement in all of this.
And thus, truly understand the reality behind his potential intentions at the crime scene.

Edgeworth: (DAMN YOU, PHOENIX!!)
(HOW DO YOU KEEP DOING IT!?)

Judge: Ms. Korr, Ms. Kas Omou...
As the key witnesses of this mission...
do you have any idea of what that item might be or for its purpose?

Keithra: ...

Candanz: An item?
Something the Kirskis clan would be seeking?
...
I have little clue as to what that could be.

Judge: Hmm...
Ms. Kas Omou, anything to say?

Keithra: ...

(Oh no!!)
(Oh no no no no!!!)
(Mr. Wright SOMEHOW sealed the materials shut...)
(He figured out about the artefact without me ever telling him!!)
(How do I respond to this!?)
(I cannot lie in court, CAN I!??)
(And to make matters worse...)
(CANDI IS WAITING FOR AN ANSWER TOO!!)

Candanz: Keit...?
Is something the matter?

Keithra: (I just can't tell the secret out...)
(HEMO WOULD KILL ME FOR THIS!!)
(LYN WOULD KILL ME FOR THIS!!)
(EVEN NEIA WOULD DO IT TOO!!)

...

(Hold up...)
(Neia...)
(NEIA!!)

(She would understand the position I am in!!)
(She even is Half-Hatiman, she KNOWS about the Kirskis clan!!)

(I... I know she will hate me for this but...)
(Who haven't I disappointed at this point?)
(Undya? It is just a matter of time...)

(I end up always disappointing people sooner or later anyway...)


GAVEL SLAM x3
Judge: MS. KAS OMOU!!
Can you please provide an answer!?

Keithra: Ehh... I-I...

Rin Ohm: What, do you actually have an idea of what he might have given him?
Is it somehow incriminating?
OR WHY ARE YOU STUTTERING!??

Keithra: N-No... I...
It's not th-that...

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: IS NOT THAT WHAT!??
Are you going to tell me you KNEW that Mr. Kirskis was GUILTY...
And DECIDED to let us WASTE THIS MUCH TIME!!
BY NOT TELLING US ANYTHING!!???

Keithra: ...!
N-No... it has nothing to do wit-

Rin Ohm: RRRRGHHHH...
ARE YOU KIDDING ME!??

ARE YOU GOING TO TELL ME THAT-
EVERYHING WE HAVE DONE IN THIS COURT-
HAS BEEN FOR NOTHING BUT PURE STALLING BY-
AN UNPROFESSIONAL AND BIASED UNGRATEFUL LITTLE

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: MS. RIN OHM!! DON'T MAKE THIS WORSE!!
There could be another reason why Ms. Kas Omou is behaving like this.

Candanz: Rgh...

Phoenix: Yes, I agree.
Keit, can you explain it to us?
What is it that scare you so much?
Was it that bad?

Keithra: Ehhh... well...

Judge: URZA RIN OHM!!
I do not know how it is on Cintrean or Luthnean soil, but here on Luria, we treat our people with utmost respect;
EVEN when they are acting suspicious or out of line.
I DO NOT want to see such an act from YOU anymore!!
DO I MAKE MYSELF CLEAR!?

Rin Ohm: O-Of course..  Your Honor.
My sincerest of apologies...

Judge: Ms. Kas Omou, please.
We are in a court of law, anything you say may be crucial for us to reach to the heart of this matter.
What is it that you know of?

Keithra: Hehehe...
Well... Your Honor.
I-I wanted to suggest calling someone for that...

Judge: Calling someone you say?
Who might that be?

Keithra: I...
Know of someone that might just know about that particular item...
Could I... offer to take someone to the stand?

Judge: Sure you can.
Who are we cross-examining now?

Candanz: ...
Phoenix: ...
Edgeworth: ...
Rin Ohm: ...

Keithra: Hehehe...
I am calling Neia Amaritan, the president of our group.

Judge:...!
The president of your group!?
She is one of the victims of the fire, is she not?
Does she know about the nature of that  object?

Edgeworth: Neia Amaritan...
I know this does not favor our official case, but we are here to discover the truth behind this crime.
I acknowledge the possibility of one of our own of our pieces of evidence being false, I cannot as a prosecutor stand for this.
Thus I suggest the following:
We will have a recess to let Ms. Rin Ohm to regain her composure and reconsider our options,
and then we will call Ms. Amaritan.

This isn't over yet, even if Hemo isn't connected to his family anymore, that does not deny any of our other pieces of evidence.
We are still considering Reckless Endangerment as a fallback here, so even if the defendant Mr. Kirskis is not a malicious person...
he still can be convicted.

Phoenix: I have more in store for you, Edgeworth,
don't you worry.
Your Honor, I agree with the prosecution's suggestion.

Judge: Very well, then we have made our decision.
We will have a 15 minute recess, and then Ms. Amaritan will take the stand.
Ms. Korr, thank you for your cooperation and your patience.
Your testimony has been of huge aid for this trial.

Candanz: It was only my duty, Your Honor.

Judge: Of course.
Well then, this court is adjourned.

Defense Lobby.
March 12th, 2022 of the EC.
November 14th, 2497 of the GC.
Time: 3:44 PM.

Phoenix: Oof... this has been a really tough trial.
It evolved from a simple arson case...
to the whole deconstruction of a high-stakes Naori Command mission by Tedu Kas Omou.
Maya Kirskis IV? Was that really one of Hemo's sisters?
Oh dear... with how the Kirksis clan is, doubt she'd be happy to hear that.

Keithra: ...

Phoenix: Hey Keit! You did a great job there...
If it weren't for your confrontation against Edgeworth about the mission...
I don't think I could have easily built a case against his meticulously crafted hypothesis on Hemo's criminal motivation.

Keithra: Yeah... I guess that's true...

Phoenix: Is something bothering you?
Don't worry about how Rin Ohm reacted, she was immediately silenced by the Judge.
I don't think she'll be allowed to yell at you like that anymore if she wants to keep her role.

Keithra: I would only guess so...

Leyna: Heeeey guuuys!!

Keithra: ...!
LYN!!
You didn't see what happened in the trial, didn't you-
Hahahahahaha...
Ha...

Leyna: ARE YOU JOKING!??
OF COURSE I DID!!
IT WAS AWESOME!!
YOU CONFRONTED URZA AND MR. EDGEWORTH LIKE A CHAMP!!

Keithra: Hehehehe...
I guess I did, didn't I?

Phoenix: No need to be so stressed Keit.
If what you said is actually true...
and Ms. Amaritan does hold the key to knowing about this bargain chip Hemo traded with the pirates...
then the case in favor of Hemo's character is as good as won!!
I don't think even Ms. Rin Ohm can complicate things enough.

Keithra: Yeah... I know...
(Actually... I'm wonder how is Urza doing right now...)

Prosecution Lobby.
Time: 3:48 PM.

Edgeworth: Ms. Rin Ohm...
What just happened there?

Rin Ohm: ...
It... It is not of your business...

Edgeworth: Not my business?
You sided with my case for most of the trial session...
And then proceeded make a FOOL out of yourself!!!

Edgeworth: You can tell me...
What's going on between you and Ms. Kas Omou?

Rin Ohm: WHAT DO YOU  MEAN!?
Keithra and I have absolutely nothing to do with one another!!

Edgeworth: I don't think that's the case...
There was no reason to believe that she was hiding something from us this entire time...
She was quite transparent about the mission,
and all seems to indicate, as long as Mr. Wright does his part...
that Mr. Kirskis does indeed have no connection to his family anymore.

Edgeworth: The item in question, is likely to be of great importance...
or even sacrilege.
We were pressuring her to testify about something that could put her mentor in great trouble.
It is likely that she is feeling guilty about it...
I wouldn't blame her for it.
(She really reminds me of the DL-6 incident...)

Rin Ohm: Huuh...!?
...
But WHY should emotions matter!??
YOU pressured people like Leyna Aru the same way I would do!!

Edgeworth: You are confusing two different things, Ms. Rin Ohm.
One thing is to pressure a witness to say the truth,
another is to flat out accuse them of paranoic conspiracies.

Rin Ohm: Rgggh...
...
I'll concede your point.
Are you done mocking me now?

Edgeworth: What? No...
I never meant to mock you...
You just need to realize that you cannot let your own personal animosities to cloud your judgement.
I don't think anyone in your prestigious family would approve of that, right?

Rin Ohm: ...
I see what you mean...

But don't let this make you BELIEVE I am not qualified for my job.
I'll have you know that this trial is of utmost importance to me!!
And I will NOT allow anyone or anything to me from seeing this through!!

Edgeworth: I never doubted that.
Come, let's discuss a little about my options now before we continue.

Rin Ohm: But of course.

TRIAL SESSION II

Crowd noise

GAVEL SLAM
Judge: Very well ladies and gentlemen...
Before we proceed with Ms. Amaritan's cross-examination,
I'd like first to have an updated report of the attorneys' status.
Mr. Wright? Are there any changes?

Phoenix: No, Your Honor.
We are still pursuing a full acquittal of all charges.

Judge: Understood.

Judge: What about the prosecution?

Edgeworth: Your Honor, while I acknowledge that seeking all previous charges of First-Degree Arson,
Reckless Endangerment and  Destruction of Property may seem outlandish now with what we know so far...

Urza nods at him.

Edgeworth: I will still want to maintain them until all proof has been dismantled.
I believe a case for motivation can be elaborated beyond Mr. Kirskis' connection with the pirates.
However, that position remains strongest until this very connection is proven wrong...
given that Kirskis' history records still paint him in a shady light.

Phoenix: (Knew that Edgeworth wouldn't simply give in...)

Edgeworth: If there is no other option, I will utilize the fallback and argue for Reckless Endangerment only.
Nevertheless...
that is not the case just yet.

Judge: Very well.
Then now we can call our next witness.
Bailiff, please bring Ms. Amaritan to the stand.

Bailiff: Roger that, Your Honor!!

Neia: ...

Judge: ...
Welcome.
May you please present yourself to the court?

Neia: My name is Neia Amaritan!!
I am a Talz Field spokeswoman and diplomatic relations announcer!!
I am also the president of Group C9A, the Cintrean counterpart of the cultural exchange program!!
What can I do for you?

Judge: You are here to answer some questions may be of help exonerate your classmate Hemo Kirskis IV.
Can you swear to this court that you will say the truth, and only the truth?

Neia: Well, if that is why you called me here for...
why would I do otherwise?

Judge: Thank you for your honesty.
Before I give the floor to the defense...
I would like to have some clarifications.

Neia: Oh... what would you like to ask?

Judge: First of all, confirm to the court what it means to be group president.
I have my understanding that it is similar to that of class presidents here on Luria...
However, given Utam education is vastly different in nature as Lurian education.
I am compelled to ask for a first-hand explanation of it.

Neia: Well... let me see if I can give you a proper summary of it.
In essence it means that I have responsibility over the morale and organization of my group.
While the group supervisor, which would be Omon Sava in our case, ensures the performance of our group.
I deal with the more humanitarian part of it.

Judge: I see... to what extent does this responsibility reach?

Neia: I am not sure what you mean by that, Your Honor.
Group presidents only act when the situation is critical...
or when it is required of us to work as a team.
But aside from that...
It is more about maintaining our group cohesive.

Judge: Understood.
Thank you for your answers.
Mr. Wright, it is all yours.

Keithra: ...

Phoenix: Thank you, Your Honor.

Alright, since I know Ms. Rin Ohm won't allow me to gather very much information here,
before we go down to the critical question...
I will simply ask some important contextual data first.

Rin Ohm: My gratitude for your consideration, Mr. Wright.

Phoenix: Ms. Amaritan, how much do you know Mr. Kirskis?

Neia: How much?
Well...
Hemo is one of our oldest members... he was on the group before even I was.
Previous group president Zinda Yue knew him well back then...
so she introduced him to me.
How much I know him now?
I'd say quite the bit!!

Even though he is closed off and often spends too much time on his workshop...
Even now on Luria.
I'd say I know enough about him to give a good insight on him.

Edgeworth: Hrm...

Phoenix: A good insight?
Are you friends by any capacity?

Neia: Yeah... I'd say so.
We used to spend time together solving puzzles!
Now it is a little bit harder given how different Lurian schedule is...
and his current predicament...
But I know him, yes.

Phoenix: Well enough to know about any particular secret?

Neia: Huh...?
(A particular secret...?)
(He can't mean...)

Neia looks at Keithra

Keithra: ...

Neia: (Ohhh....)
(So that's why...)
(They are demanding to know about his artefact...)

(Poor Keit... dear Divinity.)
(Hemo's entire career is relying on that secret...)
(Or even more role as president)

Neia: ...

(Calm down... Neia.)
(Calm down...)

(There has to be a solution for this...)
(Don't panic just now...)

(You are the president right now...)
(You can deal with this...)
(You have to...)

Phoenix: Ms. Amaritan?

Neia: ...
Yes, Mr. Wright.
Enough to know about his secrets.
Do you wish to ask me about something in particular?

Keithra: ...!

Rin Ohm: ...

Phoenix: Yes, Ms. Amaritan.
Do you know about this particular moment where he was missing at Iris Academy for nine galactic periods?

Neia: Yes, I remember that.
According to what it was informed to me...
he was off due to "controlled mentoring".

Neia: I wasn't really sure what this meant but...

...

Controlled mentoring tends to refer to when your mentor or a mentor in question needs of your service for something important.''Controlled' is a standing for "heavily supervised", a way to say that someone of caliber  needs your explicit assistance.

HOLD IT!
Edgeworth: What do you mean precisely by "someone of caliber"?

Neia: Well... controlled mentoring is not common, it is generally used on profession-focused ministries such as the Naori Command and Rego Industry.
When it is used on a Utam, it needs the direct approval of your mentor and the principal of the academy involved.
it is rare to see someone from on Utam Institute formation to be called for controlled mentoring.

HOLD IT!
Phoenix: Are you sure about the principal of the academy's approval being required?
If so, do you know anywhere you can point us at to corroborate this?

HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: No need to answer that question, Ms. Amaritan.



While as discussed earlier the Yuhan Pamphlet specifies the approval of the current mentor for controlled mentoring...
this particular clause, § 14 Cl. B, was written for application on what Ms. Amaritan said, higher-end ministries.
When it comes to the Utam Institute in particular, we have to go to other legal documents...
crucially Statute 33 of the Yuhan Doctrine which specifies:

"For interministrerial affairs regarding controlled mentoring of students within academic grounds..."
"the explicit authorization of the Head in Command of the institutional body is mandatory."
"Such procedures must then be retailed to the Utam Superior Office for clearance...."
"given the assumed  disparity in skill of the mentoring involved."

This translated means that not only does the principal need to approve of this procedure,
but also the higher authorities of the Utam Institute itself.

Judge: Ms. Rin Ohm, you could have specified on the nature of this procedure before...
why didn't you do it?

Rin Ohm: Cintrean law is far more complex than that of Lurian, Your Honor,
that is why a Jusnean accountant is needed for procedure.

Furthermore, I was only asked on the verification of the validity of Ms. Korr's claim, not on the specificity of the regulation in question.
There is no contradiction found between the Pamphlet and the Doctrine,
the Doctrine merely adds onto it.


I had no previous memory of this particular article of the 33th Statue of the Doctrine,
since the statue is an entire 144 page equivalent on itself.

Judge: Oh my...

Neia: (Hold on... Ms. Korr?)
(Was Master Candanz testifying before me!?)
(That explains some things...)

Judge: All of this seems to support the idea of the mission being a high-end orchestration then...
Mr. Wright, please, ask the question that concerns us all.

Phoenix: Understood, Your Honor.

Ms. Amaritan, do you know of any particular item that Mr. Kirskis had in his possession that could be highly valuable?

Neia: Uhhh...

Phoenix: We have now a complete understanding of what happened that particular controlled mentoring session.
Mr. Kirskis went to a high-stakes mission...
with the Naori Nep rank sub Five Second Officer of Interministerial Affairs Tedu Kas Omou,
as well Sat rank sub Eight SCC Officer Candanz Korr...
and Venai rank sub One Intern Keithra Vylie.

Keithra: ...

Phoenix: In that particular mission, Nep Kas Omou orchestrated a bargain...

Neia: He did...?

Phoenix: A bargain with some members of the Kirskis clan...
particularly Hemo's father, the leader of the Fourth Kirskis Formation.

Turns out on the mission they carried out, their outpost was attacked by the Kirskis clan,
on what seemed to be a tactical raid.

Ms. Kas Omou was captured by Hemo's, from what we know, youngest sister, Maya Kirskis IV.
Who given Ms. Korr's testimony we know went to the Naori's outpost to find Hemo's whereabouts.

Ms. Kas Omou's Great Link system was hacked...
Maya's knowledge on the weaknesses of Cintrean technology was too much for her to handle.

This gave her information about Hemo's purposefully hidden identity...
with a cloak he was wearing which most likely blocked the pirate's sensors.

Then Mr. Kirskis was transmitted purposefully to his father's spaceship...
there is where the bargain likely took place, rescuing Ms. Kas Omou in the process.

Given the importance this has for potentially exonerating him of guilt,
as he is currently being accused of serving as a spy for the Kirskis clan...
I need to ask of you:
do you know of what that object might have been!?

Neia: Nnngggh!!

...

Alright... if you need it so much.
I'll tell you what it is from what I remember...

Keithra: Nnnn-!!!

Neia: It was one day when I was checking on Hemo after he arrived from a long mission...
the hangar was open and he was tired, sleeping right on its control panel.
Trinket appeared to be charging or deactivated...
he apparently haven't even had time to wake him up.

I was wondering what exactly made him this tired so... I took a glance at what he was doing,
and there I saw it: A jewel.
A green shiny jewel with a very intricate metallic cover around it.
I had no idea how Hemo would have such possession,
I'd understand if Urza or Iluia had it since they are Luthneans, but not him.


So I approached the item... and then my Great Link system started to go crazy!!
I felt like there was some kind of anomalous property around it...
However none of Hemo's machines were affected in the slightest...
so I thought it had to be something to do with my system.

It felt odd to me to take Hemo's belonging with me to analyze it,
but I knew it was my duty.
As president I cannot allow such a dangerous item to be nearby,
no matter how much it would piss him off.

I was careful with the analysis, trying to figure out what it was...
then I realized... it wasn't any kind of known technology within registry.
Every time I attempted to run scanners...
it gave me more questions than it did answers.

But then Hemo quickly came in... he seemed very rushed.
Apparently the item was an important object he was reserving in his hangar,
he told me it was supposed to be kept secret,
I had no idea.

After checking the Command order he gave me, I saw his claim was legit,
so I gave it back to him.
I told him to not use it for anything bad...
which thankfully...
ever since I knew of it, he did not.

Rin Ohm: ...

Edgeworth: How quaint.
There is a glaring contradiction in Ms. Amaritan's testimony...
If that is what Mr. Kirskis gave to his father that day...
THEN WHY DOES HE HAVE IT AFTER THE MISSION!?

Neia: Was wondering the same...

Phoenix: Keit... this isn't what I was expecting...

Edgeworth: There has to be somebody covering up for someone here.

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: There can't be any cover ups here, there are too many high authorities involved!!
This is a multi-step operation by a governmental body, its complexity is too large to be a fabrication.

Keithra: Well... it's not that complicated actually...

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: How could it possibly NOT be complicated.
So that's why you called Ms. Amaritan....
You didn't want to tell the story yourself because it was A BLUFF!!

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: Mr. Edgeworth, FOCUS here!!
Do not make the same mistake I made!!

It might seem counterintuitive at first glance, but the regulations stated are clear.
Ms. Amaritan explicitly mentioned a Command order being shown to her...
which could explain this apparent contradiction.

Ms. Amaritan, what is this  Command order you talk about!?

Neia: Well... it stated that the jewel was being acclaimed by the Naori Command,
and utilized during the controlled mentoring session.

Rin Ohm: A piece of jewelry with anomalous effects is clear to be something that the Cintrean authorities are aware of.

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: But then, if they actually took that object with them...
What was the bargain in the first place?

Keithra: Ehhhhh...

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: We already know that Tedu Kas Omou falsified that report, Edgeworth.
What makes you think he can't lie about the bargain too!?
There could be other ways they utilized that artefact there!!

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Are you destroying your very own argument right now out of desperation?
If there was no bargain...
Then why did the pirates leave that outpost?

Keithra: Rgh...

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: Because of another of the properties of the jewel, of course!!
It has been established that the jewel is something that escapes Cintrean comprehension.
What if they scared them off with it!?

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: That jewel interferes with Cintrean technology, not Orion!!

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: The Meritocracy is PART of Alninam, which is where the name Orion comes from!!
Cintrean technology is still part of Orion technology.


OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: Mr. Wright, we have already established that Orion technology is NOT Cintrean technology.

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: And who said that the reason the jewel affects Cintrean technology is because of Essence Conversion machinery?
For all we know it could have other type of components that Orion technology still utilizes.

Neia: I mean... it is not outside the realm of-

Edgeworth: That theory is ridiculous, why would they draw the Kirskis clan out then?
To scare them off with the artefact?
THEY WOULD BE SABOTAGING THEMSELVES IF THEY UTILIZED IT!!

HOLD IT!
Keithra: Can you two LISTEN for one moment!?
...
Look... I know the reason why it may seem to you like there is a contradiction, Mr. Edgeworth.
But let me assure you... there is none, it's just that the story is incomplete.

Edgeworth: Explain yourself...

Keithra: When I was in that prison... I saw everything...
the discussion that Hemo had with his father...

It was very heated...
They were yelling at each other, calling each other names...
It was terribly uncomfortable to be there listening...

But then I saw Hemo do the offering...
It was the artefact...
or at least he framed it as if it were.
He told his father that it was encrypted, perhaps as a challenge.
And that it would take a long time to decrypt it all...

His father was too prideful to even question it...
He took the artefact...  and disinherited his son in front of me.
Telling him he was not a Kirskis anymore...
Banishing out of his ship...

When the deflectors that had me in place dropped, I instantly lost consciousness.
Yet Hemo told me afterwards why he chose to keep his last name Kirskis IV: because it was HIS.
He wouldn't allow the clan his father had to taint his identity.
He would stay in the Meritocracy and make his own mentorship line...
and that way show his father just how much he cares about his disinheritance.

And that is how everything fits...
Hemo gave his father a decoy, an artefact that wasn't the real deal...
and since his father was looking for that all along instead of looking for his own son...
he let us be...

Phoenix: Seems the bingo game is over...
and we have a winner.

Edgeworth: ...

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: This is just starting, Mr. Wright.

So, to make it clear, Ms. Kas Omou:

you are saying that the Naori Command had in possession  a jewel with highly anomalous properties,
and that the Kirskis clan was in search for this powerful amulet...
likely for corrupting or compromising Cintrean systems with ease.

Keithra: Yeah... kinda...

Rin Ohm: Then seeing this as a big opportunity,
they took Mr. Kirskis inside your peaceful mission, OPS-352B,
undercover so that other Orions do not suspect anything...

since the mission location was within the Kirskis clan's radar...
they knew they'd bring the formation out if Mr. Kirskis was there with them:
a sure way to bait them to attack in a controlled manner, given they couldn't use lethal force.

Then knowing that they'd fall for it, they gave the former pirate, Hemo Kirskis IV, a secondary amulet...
one that would be almost identical in nature, enough to fool the pirates into thinking it was the real thing,
full of nonsense data that would be impossible to decrypt.

Knowing that they'd capture someone to serve as hostage...
likely connected to Mr. Kirskis through Great Link sabotage...
they'd be in the perfect opportunity to let Mr. Kirskis go to the spaceship by himself...

 and there do the bargain to let the hostage go...
make it seem like it was his decision...
and not an order from Nep Tedu Kas Omou himself.

You may think that the Commander would never risk his mentee that way...
but that is precisely what failed about the plan.
They didn't account for Maya Kirskis IV encountering Ms. Kas Omou in a hit of bad luck,
and thus hacking her Great Link system and kidnapping her.

The risky situation was to follow the plan with Ms. Kas Omou being the hostage,
which is why Tedu Kas Omou called Mr. Kirskis to "elaborate a plan" in a way Ms. Korr could testify to us.
The plan wasn't just a mission to deceive the pirates anymore,
it was a  personal rescue mission Mr. Kirskis had to carry out carefully...
while the Commander apprehended Maya Kirskis to ensure the clan couldn't simply escape.

I've got to admit, you've got here a very solid story,
even if it involves Nep Kas Omou taking various dangerous risks...
that's just the style that characterizes his out-of-the-box thinking.

He simply saw the perfect opportunity to do it and he seized it.
Getting the pirates invested in a nonsense artefact is a genius strategic play,
as it prevents future raids from them on the grounds of seeking it.

Phoenix: I couldn't have said it better myself...

Rin Ohm: Notwithstanding this...

there are still clear problematics that can be found within it!!

Keithra: WHAA-!?

Rin Ohm: Allow me to elucidate this matter.



For starters... let me remind the court about what you yourself said:

"Hemo gave his father a decoy, an artefact that wasn't the real deal..."
"and since his father was looking for that all along instead of looking for his own son..."

Rin Ohm: Now let me ask you this, Ms. Kas Omou:
since the artefact was something the Naori Command had in its possession...
why was Mr. Kirskis' father so sure his son had it for the bargain?!!

Keithra: ...!

Rin Ohm: All of this set-up seems very well-thought...
until you start thinking about the pirates' perspective.
Just WHY for the glory of my lineage...
would they THINK this isn't a TRAP!!??

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: Ms. Rin Ohm, didn't you hear the testimony?
It was Rimmur Kirskis' pride that led him to be deluded.

He was seeking that artefact for YEARS!!
And it is exactly when Mr. Kirskis appears that he sees an opportunity to get it,
he has someone from his own family he can taunt into submission!!

Don't you think he wouldn't demand HIM  be the one going into his spaceship?
He simply wanted to persuade Mr. Kirskis, that's precisely why he was the one doing the trade.

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: That cannot be...
it is too strategically flawed... there HAS to be a BIGGER reason why he took the bait.
Besides, that doesn't address the  main inconsistency:
just why would he think Mr. Kirskis is the key to getting the artefact?

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: THEY SIMPLY DETECTED IT WHEN APPROACHING CLOSER TO THE OUTPOST!!

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: THEY WOULD HAVE OTHERWISE TRACKED MR. KIRSKIS!!

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: WHAT IF THEY PURPOSEFULLY ALLOWED THE SIGNAL TO GO THROUGH TEMPORARILY!!

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: MR. WRIGHT!!!
The clan does NOT have any reason to approach a Naori Command outpost...
unless they were willing to waste resources to 'rescue' Mr. Kirskis,
WHICH IS ABSURD!!

Neia: GUUUYYYSSS!!!

S-
Sorry if I had to interrupt like this...
but I see this argument as pointless...

Edgeworth: HOW COULD IT BE POINTLESS!?

Rin Ohm: YES AMARARITAN,  ELABORATE!!

Neia: The reason it is pointless is...
because I know the answer you are all seeking.

Keithra: N-N-Neia...
d-don't...

Neia: I knew it would come to this eventually...
it was bound to bite me back sooner or later...
seems it is the time.

When I found that artefact... it wasn't only its nature that I thought it was odd...
there was something intrinsically wrong about how it reacted with Cintrean technology.

The fact all of those warnings popped up isn't mere coincidence,
my Great Link system was panicking, like something was interfering with its mechanisms.

So when I checked it... I didn't simply run conventional scanners...
I ran a thorough forensic analysis...
until I eventually caught on something.

I couldn't believe what the initial report was showing to me...
a data log of instances in which the artefact was used.
The dates matched perfectly what I feared most...
July 17th, 2493: the day before the midterm exam results were given...
that seemed to corroborate that it was utilized during that time.

When Hemo came in, 
I confronted him with what I found.
I told him that if this artefact was indeed utilized to in any shape or form to cheat on his exams...
he would probably be expelled immediately.

However, I had no way to confirm its legitimacy with the technology I had available,
so I still gave back to him the jewel.
It was an important Command item, so it was possible that the authorities already knew of its reports,
he used to be an Orion pirate after all, he wasn't supposed to be on Cintrean education,
it is just to be expected that he'd find a way to break the system, that's why he had over six mentors before  Amur Pyne.

And besides, the commotion that it would have originated if that were to be the case,
wouldn't be worth it overall,
it would damage my group for something that Principal Iwa probably already was aware of.

I essentially balanced my duty as a president with the possibility of report manipulation by not only him...
but also the entirety of the Institute for putting a  former pirate on our education.
I had no way to tell whether this was something he did with bad intentions...
that is the way things are resolved in Orion interspace,
so I opted for the path of peaceful resolution.

So yes... this is what confirms Hemo had the artefact well before his controlled mentoring session.
Since when?
Ever since he entered the Institute, that's the first log I saw targeting Iris Academy registry.

I know Hemo has a history of misconduct...
and archive manipulation...
we might now know exactly what enabled it all.

But I swear, I made sure he didn't use it for malice ever since then...
having it revealed... probably made him reconsider things.
That's why I am so sure he has changed as a person.

(I'm sorry Hemo... I'm sorry Keit...)
(but the story had to be told.)

GAVEL SLAM x3
Judge: Given the importance of this new, updated testimony...
we will follow normal proceedings moving forward.
Since this is a crucial moment before we reconvine with the original purpose of this trial...
and the balance of justice has shifted towards the defense's narrative...
the prosecution may now have the floor for  cross-examination.

GAVEL SLAM
Mr. Edgeworth, please, you may begin when you are ready.

Rin Ohm: (I knew that defiler's archive manipulation had to be powered somehow...)
(But to think he'd go as far as to cheat on the MIDTERM exams...)
(Pathetic....)

Phoenix: So that's what was making you panic before, Keit.

Keithra: Yeah...

Phoenix: Don't fret, I've got this now.

Edgeworth: Don't get ahead of yourselves...

CROSS-EXAMINATION (NEIA: PHASE I)

"I knew it would come to this eventually..."
"it was bound to bite me back sooner or later..."

HOLD IT!
Edgeworth: Just why do you say that it would have come to this "eventually" Ms. Amaritan?
Why did you hide this detail before...
if it only serves to help his case?

OBJECTION!
Neia: The detail that was difficult to testify was the fact he appeared to have cheated on his exams!!
I'm sorry I had to omit that... I just thought it wouldn't be necessary to reveal it.

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: Wouldn't be necessary to reveal something as important as THAT!?
STOP SPOUTING EXCUSES!!

HOLD IT!
Neia: Rin, think it from my perspective for a moment, will you?
This whole thing was likely a full scale operation that doesn't even concern me.
Just how do you want me to testify about something that delicate without proper justification...

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Irrelevant.
You should from here on out tell us EVERYTHING remotely related to this case,
if not you are obstructing trial proceedings!!

Neia: Alright... I'm sorry it came down to that.

Edgeworth: Now, with that out of the way.
We can confidently declare that Mr. Kirskis does still have pirate tendencies...
he may very well be showcasing at the moment of the crime.

HOLD IT!
Phoenix: Hold it right there, Edgeworth.
What is your argument here?
Are you seriously comparing cheating on an exam to committing full-scale arson?

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: No... that's not it, Mr. Wright.
Just ponder for a bit...
Mr. Kirskis is an adopted pirate who has not yet face any consequences for his actions,
what makes you believe he wouldn't plan something this massive thinking he would do so again?

We already know that he does not understand the magnitude of his mistakes...
committing arson is something nigh-impossible to do in Cintre,
but in a world like Luria...
where he is protected by dear Meritocracy, and does not fully comprehend what it means to burn down a library...
he would think he could get away with it easily.

Phoenix: Just where did you get that one from!?

HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: Do not precipitate, Mr. Edgeworth!!
If you are arguing that Mr. Kirskis' record of not having any consequences for his actions,
is what prompted him to think he could get away with it unscathed...

Then what is HIS MOTIVATION!?

Edgeworth: Glad you asked...
we are now getting to the truth of this entire case.

Let me ask you a crucial question, Ms. Rin Ohm:
just what was that book he was searching?
If we consider that this book had highly sensitive information...
don't you think he wouldn't burn it down to make it seem like it was accidental?

He wasn't supposed to get his hands on that book...
so after getting the knowledge he needed, he destroyed it so that anyone wouldn't know what he was seeking.

Ms. Kas Omou, when you debunked my previous analysisof the blueprints...
that Trinket couldn't serve as a puppet,
it got me thinking:
if Trinket wasn't a robot he could control remotely...
how would he commit the crime?

Turns out it is pretty simple:

]he would simply program Trinket to execute a task the moment it was done with the book analysis:
burn the book into smithereens.

Yet, he didn't account for something,
the cameras that would be around the building,
so he decided to do something drastic...

allow the flames to burn the whole library along with them.

Rin Ohm: ...!
Neia: Eeekk!
Keithra: ...

Edgeworth: Only such an elegant interpretation of the events could be what mirrors reality.
This here, is my ultimate theory.

Judge: Oh my... what a turnabout!

Judge: And in only one cross-examination too!

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: I have no idea how you managed to formulate such a theory in that little amount of time...
but it doesn't come without its plot holes!!

Edgeworth: What "plot holes", Mr. Wright?
I DARE you find a single one!!

TAKE THAT!
Phoenix: There is one tiny detail you missed, Edgeworth.

If you recall Ms. Aru's testimony...
we get to note that Mr. Kirskis went to seek something INSIDE the library after the fire ignited.

Just why would he be going inside the library...
after burning it intentionally through a command he prompted Trinket to execute?
It just doesn't make sense unless it was an accident...
since he was looking for one book and it burned down.

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: You think that's the case?
THINK AGAIN!!

Don't forget I have a report on Trinket's memory at my disposal,
and within it, information about the book was found.

That particular book he burned down was quite damning.

Both cameras and the information processed by the robot confirm it:
the book was related to advanced chemical reactions associated with Talents.

It was authored by Dylian Yunor, a highly respected scientist and chemist, and incredible Constructor.

These types of books are only meant for advanced chemists and professional Talent users...
just tell me now, why would a simple electric and mechanical engineer want to get information on sensitive intel...
about potentially dangerous reactions especially related to Talents?

This is what made me be so sure of his role as a pirate spy,
it is way too suspicious to be getting information on such reactions, when they can easily be used for malice.

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: Edgeworth, you haven't answered my question.
Why would he go inside again after the fire started!?

Edgeworth: That is the easy part.
After getting the information on what he wanted to get...
and spreading the fire to cover his tracks...
he would forget about a second book he wanted to extract information from.

Just remember what Ms. Aru said:

"Hemo told me to go head towards the emergency exit while he tried to find a copy of that one book he was seeking. "

Edgeworth: "A copy of that one book" is a lie created on the fly, which projects on his true intentions at that moment:
getting his hands on  another book he forgot he wanted to track down.
That's why he went near the Utility Room again, the section he got Yunor's book from was nearby,
which would be perfect for later on attempting to steal the camera footage,
so that police doesn't even have an opportunity to get it.

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: Why would he be looking for another book after he allegedly burned down the library for the first book?
It DOESN'T make any sense!!

TAKE THAT!
Edgeworth: Let's remember that his idea for burning down the library is spontaneous.
At the heat of the moment, he simply slipped up,
and when the fire spread...
it was already too late.

...

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: Mr. Edgeworth, you DIDN'T relay this hypothesis of yours to me.
It doesn't even have an once of logical consistency,
YOU are now the one overstretching YOUR case to benefit YOUR agenda!!

Edgeworth: WHAT!?? What are you TALKING about!??
WE DISCUSSED ABOUT THIS!!

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: We DIDN'T talk about this...
in a way that would put the book that Mr. Kirskis was reading as a potential proof of his malice!!

FLASHBACK TO AFTER EDGEWORTH AND RIN OHM TALKED IN THE PROSECUTION LOBBY

Rin Ohm: I would advice you to maintain all of your previous charges.
I wouldn't say it is wise to add Information Theft and Evidence Tampering without proper evidence.

But as long as you remain consistent with your current narrative...
before anything has been proven or disproven wrong...
by Cintrean protocol, you still can easily press against Mr. Wright's uncommon strategies.

END OF FLASHBACK

Rin Ohm: The contents of the book may be controversial, yes.
But you are failing to take into account a very simple and easy innocent explanation...
as to why Mr. Kirskis would be looking for such topics.

Consider that chemistry...
is one of the majors of one of Mr. Kirskis' known coworkers within the group:
Goura Honut, the chemist and minerologist.


HOLD IT!
Neia: OH!! BUT OF COURSE!!
Hemo could perfectly be seeking for something that Goura needed for his experiments!
And since we consider that he was very intrigued by how Talents interacted with his research...
he could naturally be searching a book for him!!

Rin Ohm: I acknowledge that this paints Mr. Kirskis in a positive light...
just like how Mr. Wright was attempting to do so at the beginning of this trial.

However, truth to the matter...
it's been confirmed that the pirate background justification you posed to me initially...
has fallen apart completely.

And while the archives reveal that he is a rule-breaker...
he never has shown to be a bad or illoyal friend, even if it may be with potential ulterior motives.

You said it yourself a while ago...
currently it is far more probable that if he is guilty of something...
it is based on Reckless Endangerment only.

Keithra: ...!!
Rin!!

Phoenix: What did I tell you, Ms. Rin Ohm?

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: I will NOT  let those charges go!!
You haven't disproven anything related to my second book theory!!

Rin Ohm: Oh that?
The very same premise can be used if we consider he was panicking...
and wanted to at least help a friend.

Mr. Kirskis has Essence Level 26.
While is it not very high, it is more than enough for withstanding the heat of a library burning down.
He could perfectly want to rescue some additional information before the library burns away.

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: It is still very dangerous for him to stay in there!!
THE LIBRARY WAS COLLAPSING!!

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: The library took up to an hour for the building to start collapsing!!

All points towards what Ms. Rin Ohm said...
for a normal Lurian... even including Shielders,
it would be unthinkable to stay on a burning library.

But for someone with Essence Conversion technology...
they could even ATTEMPT to try to fix the problem themselves!!

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: That just CANNOT BE TRUE!!
If that were to be correct and all of this was simply accidental...
THEN WHO TURNED OFF THOSE SPRINKLERS AND WHY!??

Phoenix: ...!

Rin Ohm: ...

Edgeworth: We have to take something very important into account here,
Ms. Rin Ohm, Mr. Wright...
this is case is far from being resolved.

If you may remember from our previous trial session...
there were twelve people that Sathki Naeru rescued.
From this people... Mr. Wright suggested that someone might have the animosity necessary...
to purposefully sabotage those sprinklers that day.

Now, I know what you may say...
that this just relieves Mr. Kirskis from all possible intent.

INCORRECT!!

Here lies a crucial problem if there were to be no intent from Mr. Kirskis' part:
why did they deactivate the sprinklers?

This seems to suggest that they KNEW that Mr. Kirskis would burn something up on purpose...
so they set him up to propagate the flames.

Or did they?

What if we make the hypothesis that this second person is an accomplice.
I know you may be tempted to think that Mr. Kirskis doesn't have a motive...
but how can we even argue that if we don't know the full story?

There might be a grander motive that these two have formulated...
that convinced even the "friendly and loyal" Mr. Kirskis...
to commit such an atrocious crime.

Rin Ohm: Hrm...
An accomplice...
I suggest that might fit Azar Hikami's behavior.

Keithra: WHAT!!???

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: What point are you making, Ms. Rin Ohm!?

Rin Ohm: Don't you remember what you cross-examined the first session?

Mr. Hikami escaped the fire before it even began...
he had no reason to leave beforehand,
and Ms. Aru testified that he was behaving as if he knew what was going to happen it advance.

If we consider that his physical condition does not permit him to run...
it's logical to conclude he had to do with all of this!!

OBJECTION!
Neia: RIN, YOU CAN'T BE SERIOUSLY THROWING AZAR INTO THIS!!
HE WOULD NEVER PLAN AN ARSON LIKE THIS!!

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: The FACTS are the FACTS,
and his behavior was SUSPICIOUS from the get go!!

This cannot be left unresolved like this.
Mr. Hikami is one of Mr. Wright witnesses...

As a Jusnean accountant on this trial...
I give my explicit word to demand calling Mr. Hikami to the stand!!

...

GAVEL SLAM x3
Judge: I align with Ms. Rin Ohm's authority on this matter,
if there is a reason to believe that Mr. Azar Hikami is the key...
 to reveal a possible accomplice to this hideous alleged crime...
then it shall be done that way.

Mr. Edgeworth, do you agree with halting your cross-examination?

Edgeworth: Yes, Your Honor.
It would be my pleasure to cross-examine Mr. Hikami next.

Phoenix: Your Honor, I am certain that even with Ms. Aru's testimony,
Mr. Hikami doesn't have anything to do with this incident.

Keithra: ...

Neia: ...

Phoenix: However, I acknowledge that her words cast a shadow of doubt on his account.
I agree with calling him to testify.

Judge: Very well, then it's been decided.
We will be calling Mar. Hikami to testify for us on the stand.

GABEL SLAM
Judge: Ms. Amaritan, thank you for your testimony.
You may leave the courtroom now.

Neia: ...
Understood, Your Honor.
Keit, Mr. Wright, good luck over there.

Phoenix: Don't mention it.

Keithra: Thanks Neia, you did us a great favor...

Neia: Of course... I did what I could.
Bye-bye.

Neia leaves the courtroom

Judge: (I can feel we are heading closer to the heart of this case...)
BAILIFF, BRING MR. HIKAMI HERE IMMEDIATELY!!

Bailiff: ON IT, YOUR HONOR!!

Azar enters the courtroom

Azar: Sup.

Judge: Thank you for coming in.
Can you please present yourself to the court?

Azar: Azar Hikami, local top-dog spaceman albino, most wanted in town.
Also Wega's worst personal nightmare via social experimentation.
What can I do for ya'?

Judge: (What an odd way to introduce yourself...)
Mr. Hikami, we called you here because we need you to answer some important questions regarding our case...

Azar: Yup. Realized as much.
Seems you cannot figure this one out yet.

It's quite sad honestly, but oh well.
Why not enjoy it while it lasts?

Rin Ohm: Hmph...

Judge: Mr. Hikami, are you implying you already know how this case is going to end?

Azar: Pfff, knew it ages ago.
This is just going to be an obnoxious pinball game,
I can see it coming a mile away.

But well, it is what it is.

I know exactly what you want out of me,
you want me to testify what I was doing that day for cross-examination eh?
They are going to twist this so hard...
No matter, tell your prosecution I am ready then.

Judge: Hmm...
No, not yet.

You must first answer to me this critical question-

Azar: C'mon, it's pretty simple...
an Independent Researcher just means that I do research for the Naori Command directly.
I am no regular Utam, and I don't have an specific profession...
but let me assure you I'd do better than most of them in their own field if I put my mind up to it.

Judge: I see...
Well then, are you going to promise to this court that you'll say the truth, and only the truth?

Azar: Chillax, I don't have any reason to lie,
I don't need to.

Judge: Understood...
Mr. Edgeworth?

Edgeworth: Please, begin with your testimony.

WITNESS TESTIMONY: AZAR HIKAMI

Azar: So, we all know pirate's biggest humiliation yet happened at around noon on March 3rd.
That day, we were all visiting to that old ass library to get some knowledge or whatever.

The four of us,  along with his pet,  went there before everyone else had arrived early in the morning,
reason was cuz' we knew Lurian traffic was a pain in the rear.

He and I were wandering off for a while.
Not that we were looking something in concrete,
it was more that we've got something in our hands back then,
something that we knew sooner or later was going to be matter of news...

What did I spend doing after?
Checking up on some of those antiquated archives, that's what.

The library was getting buzzy fast,
 so after engulfing nine or ten of those...
I got bored of all the noise.

When the entire the happened, I was already outside of it.
The fire spread quite quickly, I was lucky to be outside.
Not even I anticipated something like that would happen that day,
even though I knew that there were some risks involved.

And that's what I was doing, 
just chilling... reviewing some books, for the most part.

Wondering already how you are going to twist that.

Judge: Very well, Mr. Edgeworth, the floor is yours.

Edgeworth: Of course, Your Honor.

Phoenix: Keit, is he trying to make himself suspicious on purpose?

Keit: Hehehe...
Just leave him be, Mr. Wright...

CROSS-EXAMINATION (AZAR: PHASE I)

"So, we all know pirate's biggest humiliation yet happened at around noon on March 3rd."

HOLD IT!
Edgeworth: Mr. Hikami, what do you mean by the "pirate's biggest humiliation"?
That is very specific way of wording things...
EXPLAIN YOURSELF!!

Azar: Heh, but of course you'd ask.

Say, Mr. Prosecutor...
what exactly did you guys discuss while I wasn't here?
Was it something particularly otherworldly?

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Just answer the question!!

Azar: No, you answer this question:
what does a pirate do, if his ship trials off beyond the horizon?

Edgeworth: Just what could that POSSIBLY mean?

Azar: Are you not going to use your brain cells?
Or did all of that flourish went below your neck?

Edgeworth: Stop deviating from-

Azar: Oh, deviating?
Do you seriously think this is deviating?

Hah!
Then this is far worse than I thought.

According to your own Lurian folk culture,
a pirate's biggest pride his ship and its crew.

Treason is considered to be punished by death...
yet when ship sails away they enter in dismay.

Since what is pirate without piracy one might say out loud,
even when at the end a ship is always found.

HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: ENOUGH OF YOUR WORDPLAYS, AZAR HIKAMI!!
SPEAK CLEARLY LIKE A NORMAL PERSON!!

Azar: So you don't get it either, "Ms. Ohmnimous"?
Are you sure you belong here?

Rin Ohm: I'll let you know that my status as Jusnean accountant is...
NOT A MATTER TO CAST DOUBT UPON!!

OBJECTION!
Azar: Why would that be the case?
You are a Luthnean noble who studied in Cintre in a Lurian courtroom,
seems to me more than enough of a reason...
to be questioning your presence in this very court.

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: TAKE THAT BACK,
THE LAW IS CLEAR WITH THE REGULATIO-

OBJECTION!
Azar: Regulations written by the Yuhan Authority...
a governmental organization from a different spacetime continuum.
We are in a entirely different planet.
You wouldn't see Luthneans prosecuting a Cintrean fugitive on Luthnee...
with the presence of a Cintrean accountant.

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Mr. Hikami, Lurian law, specifically Ecuian law...
poses that in case a tourist commits an infraction...
the regulations stipulated and validated on their own homeland...
are fully taken into consideration.

Another thing that is  well-documented...
IS THAT YOU MUST STOP MOCKING OUR COURTROOM!!

HOLD IT!
Azar: Mocking? I don't think I am mocking anything here... 
aside from your scrupulously crafted attire, of course.

I was merely raising the questions no one dares ask...
and explaining just what you told me to explain.

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: Mr. Hikami, please, you are making me look bad here.
Could you do us a favor and  translate this for us?

Keithra: Yeah... Azar...
Please collaborate...

Azar: Okay... fine...
Let me explain this in layman terms.

All I am saying is that the junk fanatic is a former pirate...
so even outside his "ship", he follows the ways of the "sea".
Thus he creates his "very own ship" with the passing of time...
ship which seemingly passed horizon for him.

HOLD IT!
Edgeworth: So you are saying that his humiliation is a metaphor for his current predicament...
if that is the case, then I must inquire:
just why is this a "humiliation"?
That wording indicates there was something to be humiliated for.

Azar: Must I be your grandma and spell this out for you?
You are taking pretty simple nomenclature to its most literal interpretation.
We are here indulging ourselves in fourth dimensional chess...
while you are still stuck on your old two-dimensional board.

Gotta grow past that man.
Keep up with the times.

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: You are being WAY too evasive for this to be merely a mind game for you.
There HAS to be a reason you are behaving like this.
And I WILL get to the bottom of it!!
YOU are not deceiving me with those riddles of yours!!!

HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: IT'S BEEN ENOUGH!!
MR. EDGEWORTH, UTILIZE A DIFFERENT ANGLE!!

Edgeworth: ...
Agreed... that I'll do.

CROSS-EXAMINATION (AZAR HIKAMI: PHASE II)

"The four of us, along with his pet,  went there before everyone else had arrived early in the morning,"
"reason was cuz' we knew Lurian traffic was a pain in the rear."

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Mr. Hikami!!

While the library is located within the district of Wega, a district of Ecuia City.
Why would you even care for the traffic leading to it!?

Your residency pots located in Myria, are at most thirty minutes away from its location,
it would take no more than six bus stops to get there on regular schedule.

There HAS to be another reason you went there that early!!

OBJECTION!
Azar: Nah, you must be hallucinating things.
Do you smoke weed, or did your tobacco enthusiasm get to your brain like how it happens to my principal?

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: I AM NOT HALLUCINA-!

Azar: Dude, chill out.
We all know you are so encapsulated by your illusion of logical framework,
that you make believe that buses always arrive on time.

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: That doesn't solve anything for you!!
Buses leading towards the library in Wega are recurrent,
and there are several bus lines that lead towards the same place.
You can easily take another bus to arrive there!!

OBJECTION!
Azar: Sure thing bud, keep on dreaming.
Do you even have a morning schedule?
Or does your mommy arrange that hair for you?

Edgeworth: Morning schedule?
What are you IMPLYING!?

Azar: Seriously?
Its not that deep...

I told you we were there in the morning...
question is... what constitutes being there "in the morning"?

Edgeworth: What are you suggesting?
That you are not utilizing a regular definition for "morning"?

Azar: You're making way too many assumptions, my esteemed "flourish-man".
I have already spilled the big the legos for ya...
be a good toddler, and play with them.

HOLD IT!
Phoenix:  So, you are saying that you went there in the morning because you find the traffic on Luria annoying...
Edgeworth is thinking that this must mean that you find traffic jams a nuisance...
which is an intuitive interpretation...
but not what you are meaning.

If we consider that bus lines from Nyria to Wega are meant to be taken primarily by students...
those schedules are tailored in specific to when students are going to their institutes.

However, the moment of the incident wasn't particularly on those timeframes...
it was on a holiday, Day of Maron's Gift!!

Edgeworth: ...!

Phoenix: Holidays in Ecuia are considered sacred...
since they are supposed to be moments in which people spend time with their families and friends,
so bus line schedules are completely different, particularly during the morning.

So if Mr. Hikami is implying that he is using a broader definition for "morning",
that has a quite simple solution:

you took a bus at dawn, one of the only ones available...
so that you could have more of a chance to arrive to the library...
in case the regular bus doesn't arrive on time.

Azar: "Wright" you are, Mr. Birb,
but there are things you are missing.

Phoenix: Just what did I miss?

Azar: Wega public transportation is unlike Cintrean public transport,
it is highly inefficient, chaotic and reliant on human error.
In almost any of the Cintrean subcolonies...
we would see networks of essence lining leading to everywhere around the cities.

Walking from building to building, or even from place to place within an infrastructure...
is deemed a burden and a waste of time.

So, imagine my disdain when I realize I have to wait up to 20 minutes to get inside a bus...
when even with my extremely low levelling and stamina problems,
I could theoretically jog the 8 kilometers necessary in less an amount of time.

OBJECTION!
Rn Ohm: You are NOT going to use such a pitiful excuse under my radar, Hikami.
You are GOING to cooperate...
WHETHER YOU WANT IT OR NOT!!

OBJECTION!
Azar: What makes you so sure, Ms. Vampire?
Did the earthquake move your sarcophagus?

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: NO, that's is not it, and I KNOW WHAT YOU ARE DOING!!
You are clearly hiding something...
AND I WILL FIND OUT WHAT IT IS!!



Rin Ohm: According to the camera recordings rescued after the incident happened...
your subgroup appeared there at precisely 7:46 AM.
That means from the bus line available that day  at 7:27 AM...
there was a window of precisely 19 minutes.
Now, you unruly bastard, do your job for once and ANSWER ME THIS:

WHY DOESN'T THAT MATCH YOUR STORY!?
THAT BUS TOOK 21 MINUTES TO ARRIVE!!
Furthermore, it seems that you have the sacrilegious, PREPOSTEROUS AUDACITY...
to say you arrived there early because OF THE TRAFFIC!!??

YOU ARRIVED EARLY FOR A DIFFERENT REASON!!
YOU ARE DECEIVING EVERYONE IN THIS COURT!!
IT IS SUPREMELY EVIDENT TO ME...
AND TO MY VERY ANCESTRAL INHERITENCE!!

Azar: Nice references you pulled off there- 

Rin Ohm: YOU WILL STOP INTERRUPTING AT ONCE!!
You are going to get serious...
AND TELL US WHAT REALLY HAPPENED!!

If you do NOT explain this glaring contradiction in your testimony at this VERY INSTANT...
Your words will lose ALL CREDIBILITY...
IN THIS VERY THIS COURT!!

HOLD IT!
Azar: You think that is a contradiction...
how very kawaii of you.
You are so used to  boxes...
you cannot see them anymore.

The answers you seek are right in front of you...
stop sucking blood out of people-

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: IT IS A CONTRADICTION YOU LIAR!!
IT IS EVIDENT YOU HAVE A HIDDEN AGENDA!!
REVEAL ITS NUANCES TO ALL OF US!!
OR FACE THE CONSEQUENCES OF PERJURY!!

This isn't a game you can play...
YOU MUST STOP ACTING LIKE IT IS!!
Tell us why you went there early...
AND LET'S GET OVER WITH THIS!!

OBJECTION!
Azar: Oh... so you are also very impatient despite experiencing eons of suffering.
Nay-nay, not a way to behave lil' gurl.
Well... now that this tantrum is over...
I'll reveal to you what it truly means.

...

Azar: My appreciation for calming down...
what a screeching voice...
you were starting to give me acute otalgia.

So you think that a simple bus timeline discrepancy is what reveals that I'm a liar all along...
I wonder why you are jumping to conclusions so fast.
I told you from the very beginning that the bus inefficiency was extremely annoying...
so what makes you assume we arrived in said bus?

Routes often take longer paths to gather more people across the streets...
just what does that tell you hmm?

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Isn't that too convoluted?
Why would you walk there after taking the bus?

Azar: Mr. Cravat, the library doesn't exist on a vacuum,
there are other things around to sightsee.
I know you must already know her...
you saw how innocent she is.

Venus's Gridle was still present on the sky...
so she wanted to get out to take a look at it.
It wasn't only more efficient and much more enjoyable...
but also very in character for us.

HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: Rrrgh...
...
Let me see...
that does make some sense.
Leyna Aru does seem like someone who would like to see such a natural atmospheric phenomenon.

However, I do have a question for you:

since when do you care for efficiency!?

Azar: Oh...?

Rin Ohm: There is something that you and Mr. Kriskis have in common, Mr. Hikami,
and that is that you both are chronic rule-breakers...
that love to tamper with proceedings for your own benefit.

Regardless of how much your argument about Ms. Aru is congruent...
neither you or Mr. Kirskis would care for-

OBJECTION!
Azar: Ah... I see where you are going with this.
Pretty astute, huh Ms. Puffball?
So you think that my disrespect for boring and mundane predictability...
which I can foresee with clear anticipation mind you...
is grounds to believe I tolerate the lack of efficiency of Lurian traffic?

OBJECTION!
It is not that you tolerate it or not, Mr. Hikami...
your entire alibi is based on something that seems fabricated on the fly.
Why?

Because you have no reason to exit that bus yourself.
You are physically weak, and even if what you said were to be true...
and you truly hate that there are no "essence lining pathways" on Lurian infrastructure...
then why would you walk for several minutes instead of simply staying?

It is like an elderly person choosing to go for a 10 minute walk...
instead of calmly staying on their seat for three more stations.

Azar: Fabricated?
Why would that be fabricated, Mr. Letterhair?
The answer as to why I would exit that bus was present within my testimony all along.

Edgeworth: WHAT!?

Azar: Just think for a bit what I said.

"The library was getting buzzy fast,"

" so after engulfing nine or ten of those..."

"I got bored of all the noise."

Azar: Is it clear now?

Edgeworth: ...

Azar: The reason why I went outside that bus is because of "inefficiency"...
but just what does the term "efficiency" cover?

Rin Ohm: "Inefficiency" means that it is a waste of time, something impractical.

Azar: Impractical for what?
Can you guess?

Edgeworth: So you are saying that the inefficiency you were complaining about wasn't only the bus delay...
but also the fact the bus was noisy?

Azar: So you got it now, great!!

Phoenix: That does seem to hold when you were explaining about why you dislike Lurian transport.
You explicitly said:

"it is highly inefficient, chaotic and reliant on human error."

Phoenix: Mr. Hikami also supported this very complaint within the explanation he was providing with "chaotic".
Granted, it was well hidden,
but it is entirely consistent.

Judge: Seems like Mr. Hikami's story is still holding up nicely.
Mr. Edgeworth, did you find any other potential inconsistency?

Edgeworth: Y-Yes I did, Your Honor.
You won't escape this one, Mr. Hikami.

CROSS-EXAMINATION (AZAR HIKAMI: PHASE III)

"He and I were wandering off for a while."
"Not that we were looking something in concrete,"
"it was more that we've got something in our hands back then,"
"something that we knew sooner or later was going to be matter of news..."

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Mr. Hikami, are you so arrogant and sure of your intellect...
that you decided to include your very own plan inside your testimony on purpose...
thinking we won't capitalize on it?

This is going to be matter of news indeed:
"Local white-haired Cintrean genius gets caught by his very own arrogant testimony in court."

Azar: More like: "World-renowned prosecutor with flippant cravat..."
"humiliated in court by arrogant albino."

Edgeworth: ...

Azar: C'mon, Mr. "Fluorishmint"...
show all of Luria even possibly Alninam...
that you can do much more than simply cleaning and refreshing people's teeth.

Edgeworth: That is PRECISELY what I am about to do!!

...

Edgeworth: So you think this is merely a game you can play and come out of unscathed.
Thinking you can simply put out the pieces...
And act as if we are just simple-minded chimps...
that cannot fathom, let alone understand the game you carefully carried out.

**Well, I'm very sorry to tell you, Mr. Hikami...
but your game has been deciphered by clues set up WELL BEFORE you've got the CHANCE to step inside this courtroom!!

Azar: ...

Edgeworth: Your attempts at disrupting the order of my cross-examination have been duly noted...
that is NOT going to delay a conviction for you any longer.

Security recordings show you and your "friends"...
Sathki Naeru, Leyna Aru,  and more importantly, Hemo Kirskis IV...
arriving at the crime scene at 7:46 AM in the morning.

You explicitly stated that after arriving to the library that day...
you "wandered off" for a while with our defendant this court, Mr. Kirskis.

I wonder... what could you be possibly doing at that time?

Well, if we look at the recordings again...
we see that you and Mr. Kirskis spent time looking for specific books.

While I initially thought this has no meaning whatsoever...
that changes drastically if we consider the following:

you and Mr. Kirskis planned the full-scale arson the whole time.
During my leading investigation to this trial...

I explicitly asked for an analysis on the materials commonly used for the books that the library stored,
thinking it has some connection with the rapid spread of incident's fire.
It appears that this seemingly useless endeavor...
now proves to be the key for solving this case.

Said analysis told me this:

"Materials commonly used for producing certain types of books..."
"carry on the risk of the Talent-infused side products passing over."
"Depending on the content of the book produced..."
"engraved Knowledge-Seeking energy is observed to have a particular volatility..."
"depending on just how complex the contents are."
Wouldn't you know what day it was back then?

A holiday related to the God of Knowledge-Seeking!!

Phoenix: Oh-oh.

Edgeworth: It is a well-known phenomenon that during specific holidays...
the strength of the energy required for Talents to work increases.
Which means it is the perfect opportunity for this crime to be carried out.
How does this connect with what you were doing?
YOU TWO were seeking specific books that have the most chance to exhibit this volatile behavior!!
Azar: ...
Edgeworth: Then you will have the perfect opportunity to strike...
and burn down the library to ashes.
How?
By deactivating the sprinklers present in the Utility Room.
You didn't tell us something crucial, did you?
Because you didn't want to lie.
Guess what?
You lied by omission.**

**You are so smart... thinking that leading Trinket to the Utility Room would just frame Mr. Kirskis for the crime.
But by your own admission... even you "oversee things",
just not what you said you do.
I observed both your and your friends movements during all of the duration of that morning...
and that gives me a crucial clue:
you TOUCHED Trinket several times during your stay.

Keithra: ...!

Edgeworth: I'm no fool... I know that your Great Link system does not necessarily need you to create "panels" to access or modify information,
you just need to touch whatever instrument you command,
that is just how pilots control their spaceships.
YOU accessed Trinket's operative system to trigger a behavioral shift!!
Then, with Trinket working by your side...
it deactivated the library's only line of defense.
And then... by the very command and information you gave it...
you chose the specific book that would have the most likelihood of successfully carrying out that plan.
Yunor's Handbook to Advanced Chemical Reactions associated with Talents.

Azar: ...

Edgeworth: Now you wonder how I know that you and Mr. Kirskis would do that.
Pretty simple... revenge.
Azar: Hmm?
Edgeworth: Don't you think I know about you...
that I haven't researched about who you are and what you do?
I know your origin story, you are one of the victims of the Norst War, aren't you?**

Azar: Huh!?

Edgeworth: Lurian law demands that all information related to the witnesses be retailed to us...
and that includes hidden personal matters.
I know why you are so smart, and just why you are physically weak.
Your own mentor Unnos Hikami relayed it to me.
YOU'VE BEEN EXPERIMENTED ON!!

Keithra: ...!
Azar: Wha-
Did he do that...?

Edgeworth: That's why you have a strong motivation to go against the Meritocracy...
and by extension us.
And you'd think Mr. Kirskis doesn't have a motivation too, right?
WRONG!!
We know by Neia Amaritan's testimony that his cheating is not something new for the system.
This just means something simple that not even Ms. Amaritan was aware of...
the very thing she was afraid of...
ALREADY HAPPENED.
He's been punished... he just isn't allowed to display it.
Because doing so would demand the reveal of the very compromise he used for cheating...
THE ARTEFACT!!

OBJECTION!
Keithra: But Mr. Edgeworth...
He decided to...

Edgeworth: To stay with you with the Meritocracy?
Of course he would... how else can he enact vengeance?
Being a pirate just isn't convenient...
it is easier to make a devastating blow if you stay from within...
making them think you are an ally.
And the possibility to commit this crime... is EXACTLY what he needed.
The Lurian-Cintrean alliance is the Meritocracy's most important political project of the 25th galactic century.

Phoenix: RGGHHH...

Edgeworth: The scandal that would come from a pirate being allowed in a delicate exchange program for STUDENTS would be MONUMENTAL.
It DOES NOT matter that Mr. Kirskis would be convicted afterwards... because he is a PIRATE!!
THEIR PRIDE is their GREATEST asset and the MOST IMPORTANT one.
JUST LIKE HIS FATHER!!
IT IS THE PERFECT MOMENT FOR THEM TO STRIKE A DEVASTATING BLOW!!

...

OBJECTION!
Azar: Hehehe...
Hahahaha...
BUAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA!!!

THAT'S SUCH A GOOD ONE, MR. CONVOLUTION!!
WHAT A WAY TO UTTERLY MISINTERPRET EVERYTHING!!
HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA-

Rin Ohm: Rrrrggh...

Phoenix: Hehehehe...

Keithra: Hehehe...

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: MR. HIKAMI!!
If you have any reason to believe my conclusion is wrong,
STATE IT RIGHT NOW!!

Azar: Want me to explain to you just how much of an OVERTHINKER ASS you are!?
Sure thing, buddy.
Prepare to be blown away.

...

Azar: Well well, let's start from the top, shall we?
I'll try to make things simple for you...
so that you don't fry over your brain finding more things to misunderstand.

First of all... Mr. Overthinker,
tell me something real quick...
what makes you so sure we went there seeking a book to provoke a fire?

OBJECTION!
edgeworth: You are not the one who has to be asking questions.
Refute my claim now...
OR YOU ARE INCRIMINATING YOURSELF!!

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: Edgeworth, answer the question.
What makes you so sure that they were doing their book expedition...
to cause the most amount of the damage possible?

If there is another very powerful reason why they would be doing said expedition...
There is NO REASON to believe they were doing what you said they would!!

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: That is not true, Mr. Wright.
They could perfectly be doing something believable...
like how Mr. Hikami was studying the library's books...
and at the same time do their volatility investigation to cover it!!

Azar: That's true.
Theoretically speaking, we could perfectly be doing two things at the same to make it seem less suspicious.

Phoenix: Mr. Hikami, you are not helping...

Azar: Yet that doesn't factor in the very obvious problem...
that would contradict our very hypothetical motive for the "crime".

Phoenix: What would that be, Mr. Hikami?

Azar: Why would we make ourselves less suspicious for a crime which target is conviction itself?

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: It is pretty evident that you do not want to be convicted yourself, Mr. Hikami.
Making yourself less suspicious is only natural to avert eyes away from you.

OBJECTION!
Azar: Ah... but the one who was captured was not me, was Grasshair.
I don't need to make myself less suspicious at all.

Your very theory posits that we were looking specifically those books...
you mentioned that were "volatile".

I could easily look for those books only and still not be arrested myself.

That means that my priority would be to maximize the chances of him being convicted...
doing something that could lead to Mr. Birb over there exonerating him with his record...
would completely defeat the very purpose of the crime.

Phoenix: Hehe... guess you are right.

That means that if there exists a reason you two have to be there...
that isn't for the purpose that Edgeworth's theory poses...
it would effectively counter his entire case.

And I think I know what can prove just exactly that.

Edgeworth: You must be bluffing...

Phoenix: Nuh-uh.

THERE IS A MASSIVE CONTRADICTION IN YOUR ENTIRE STORY!!

Edgeworth: A CONTRADICTION!!?

Phoenix: Think you can use that book to claim that Mr. Hikami and Mr. Kirskis planned an arson?
Oh so lost you are... Edgeworth.
I caught you grasping at straws.

That very book you presented us with...
is fundamentally incompatible with your theory.

You said that engraved Knowledge-Seeking energy made the books volatile,
BUT A CONSTRUCTOR IS THE ONE WHO WROTE IT!!

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Mr. Wright, you are misunderstanding something critical here.
The Knowledge-Seeking energy comes from production...
as machines infused with Knowledge-Seeking energy copy the book...
and transfer the knowledge onto the copies for other Knowledge-Seekers to easily read.

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: That is precisely where your entire case falls apart, Edgeworth.
Can you remind me what exactly is the title of the book you were showing us?

Edgeworth: "Yunor's Handbook to Advanced Chemical Reactions associated with Talents".

Phoenix: What exactly is that?

Rin Ohm: A scientific paper created for chemists like Goura Honut to read and study...
written by the author himself and donated to the library for restricted loan.

Phoenix: You have to hear it to believe it...
said by the Jusnean accountant herself.

This fact also patches other problems regarding your theory...
like for instance... why did Mr. Kirskis adventure inside the burning library?

I know you would say that it was to further incriminate himself by attempting to steal camera footage.

But no... this gives us the clear picture of what he was actually doing:
since the book was an original copy... whatever he was seeking was lost forever.

So congruent with Ms. Aru's testimony, he was taking the desperate gambit...
of seeking the library's digital back-up copy.
But let's remember that it was a fire that was happening at that moment...
He simply tried to download everything available,
not only thinking that he could rescue said back-up copy...
but also save part of the library's archives in the process.

Keithra: That makes perfect sense!!

Rin Ohm: Undoubtedly.

Azar: A brilliant deduction.
No wonder they call you the "Ace Attorney".

Phoenix: I must really thank you, Edgeworth.
You effectively helped us resolve the very problem that haunted us since the very beginning.
You unveiled that Mr. Kirskis is not a criminal...
but rather... a misunderstood hero.

Edgeworth: (DARN IT ALL...)

(No...)
(There is still a critical problem here...)

(Why...)
(Why did HE hide all of this?)
(Why would he even hide it from Phoenix?)
(It doesn't make any sense...)

(He must be overlooking something...)
(HE MUST BE!!)
(HE HAS TO BE!!)

Edgeworth: This is not over... Phoenix.
Not by a long shot...
UNTIL IT REALLY IS!!

You want to argue that Mr. Kirskis did all of this for a back-up copy of the book he was seeking, is that it?
I'd assume that is the argument you are making for innocent motivation for him and Mr. Hikami.
But there is a big issue with this...
one that completely undermines your ENTIRE defense narrative.

Phoenix: I'm listening...

Edgeworth: There is something that has been very clear to me since this trial started...
and that is your absolute lack of preparation.

Phoenix: Are you seriously resorting to these tactics now?

Edgeworth: I don't mean to mock you like Mr. Hikami would do...
I mean it in a literal sense.

You... alongside all of us in this trial...
have been discovering new things as they were presented,
shifting your tactics and your observations.

This cannot stand.

It doesn't make sense for you to do that...
YOU ARE THE DEFENSE!!
You SHOULD know about Mr. Kirskis' alibis with anticipation!!

Phoenix: Oh...

Edgeworth: But you didn't.
You presented counter arguments that contradict your very own right at this moment...
which can only mean one thing:
MR. KIRSKIS DID NOT TELL YOU ANYTHING ABOUT THE ARTEFACT OR THE BOOK ITSELF!!

Phoenix: (OH NO... NOT AGAIN!)

Edgeworth: This completely flips everything right on its head.
Yes... my theory might be incorrect.
For now.

The fact that Mr. Kirskis hid this seemingly obvious innocent motive from you despite appearing to be the key to exonerate him...
just means that it isn't evidence that relief his guilt at all.

IT NOT THE TRUTH WE ARE SEEKING!!

Azar: So of course by this point you'd know about the artefact.

...

Azar: Don't tell me you forgot about me already...
I'm insulted, that is not the impression I wanted to make across over here.

I'm wondering... Mr. Daltonic,
how can you possibly be conflating these two data points together...
and thinking they are mutually exclusive to one another,
when they clearly are not.

It is pretty evident that you already know the nuance behind it...
behind the Asymmetrical Essence Hijacker.

The device that utilizes powerful Non-Generative Frequency Interference...
to severely disrupt basic crystalloid functioning...
and thus override its nuclei with its very own molecular aligning.

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: How do you know about all of this informatio-

Azar: C'mon, should it not be obvious to you mate?
I analyzed and studied it all of with Mr. Handy himself.

We made full reverse-engineering of the technology to understand its functioning...
so we can thoroughly get to know how it works.

The artefact was in his possession all along after all...
and we needed to know its exact limitations...
for the thing  you guys have been searching all this time...
what we were ACTUALLY working on.

GAVEL SLAM x3
Judge: Mr. Hikami, I am understanding that it is the artefact itself...
the reason why Mr. Kirskis IV decided not to tell the defense about the quest for the book's back-up.
Not only because it would require the reveal of the object as the means to hack the library's servers...
but also because of the potential unveiling of Tedu Kas Omou's mission by proxy.
Is this true?

Azar: Yes, that's right Mr. Baldie.

The AEH does not only target Cintrean tech...
it does Lurian as well because the Talents' essence patterns...
are very similar to the essence utilized for conversion in crystalloid technology.

It is why Lurians can utilize Cintrean technology in the first place.

Keithra: ...!
True!! Undya tried using a Cintrean gadget before...
and it worked like a charm!!

Rin Ohm: Mr. Hikami's explanation is well sound and consistent.

Edgeworth: (I'VE BEEN OUTPLAYED BY THIS ARROGANT FOOL!!)

Judge: This means the defense's argument is still standing strong.
We just need to finally tie together the last loose ends to solve this case for good.

GAVEL SLAM
Judge: Mr. Hikami, could you please clarify what exactly was this "thing" you and the defendant were doing?

Azar: Nah, I won't do that.

Phoenix: Please, Mr. Hikami...
I've had enough for one day...

Azar: I'm meaning...
Why would I do that...
when Grasshair can do it himself?

Judge: The defendant?
Are you saying that the defendant is going to help us solve this mystery?

Azar: I've done my part.
And I've got what I wanted.
So if you want to finally close this chapter...
better do it with the person that has defined it.

Phoenix: I agree, Your Honor.

The prosecution said it themselves...
even I do not have the complete information from his perspective.

It would be smart to let him testify so that we can corroborate everything we've gathered.

It would also provide one last chance for Edgeworth to find any inconsistency...
so I would see it as a fair choice.

Judge: Very well then...
Mr. Hikami... please leave the stand in an orderly manner.

Azar: Of course.
Social experimentation's over here anyway...
and with extraordinary results.

MONOLOGUE THOUGHTS SCENE

Hemo: They did it...
They actually did it...

They somehow went through all of that crap to uncover the hidden truth...
Got no idea how they pulled it off...
But goddamn do I respect them for that...
It's been hell I've had to go through to hide that damn jewel's existence from the court...
I freaking hate the Superior Office for this shit.

Twolocks...
Prez...
Even you Azar, freaking troll...

All of you did amazing over there...
I'm sorry my secret had to be a burden...
I never wanted it to be your burden to bear...

So let me set this straight for you...

It is time I actually regain my honor as the Kirskis I am meant to be...

END OF MONOLOGUE

...
...

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: No...

Your "experiment" is not over Mr. Hikami...
My cross-examination is not yet completed.
And I refuse to let it go...

I know you are hiding something,
and even if my previous theory is incorrect...
I WILL take it out of you without needing HIM to interfere.

I OBJECT against calling the defendant to the STAND,  Your Honor!!

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: Edgeworth!!
He has the last piece of the puzzle we need.
It is only natural that he'd be called to the stand.

ESPECIALLY since we don't know his point of perspective yet!!

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: You think that EXCUSE is going to deviate my cross-examination!?
You've got another thing coming for you.

Mr. Hikami has MORE than ONE reason to be suspicious...
including this VERY EVASIVE behavior he is displaying.

He KNOWS something and so wants to ESCAPE from this courtroom!!
AND PASS ON THE BURDEN TO HIS COMPANION!!

Azar: ...

Edgeworth: I won't let Mr. Kirskis' supposed emotional moment to reveal his "true intentions"...
to distract our attention from MY evidence.

As Ms. Rin Ohm put it at the beginning of this trial...
IT IS STRAIGHT UP MANIPULATION OF MORALE!!

Phoenix: ...

Judge: Hmmm...
I see no reason overrule this.

GAVEL SLAM
Mr. Edgeworth, continue your cross-examination.
However, if this proves to be a waste of time.
We will have a long discussion about your professionalism after this trial.

Edgeworth: I am certain this is not a move that comes out of desperation, Your Honor.

We will get to the bottom of this.

Not on Mr. Hikami's terms...
but on MY OWN terms.
Prepare to be outplayed, "4D chess player".

CROSS-EXAMINATION (AZAR HIKAMI: PHASE IV)

"When the entire thing happened, I was already outside of it."
"The fire spread quite quickly, I was lucky to be outside."
"Not even I anticipated something like that would happen that day,"
"even though I knew that there were some risks involved."

Edgeworth: Mr. Hikami, I ask myself something here...
what where those "risks involved"?

Azar: So you didn't overlook that...
Congrats, you didn't spectacularly fail the test like I thought you did.
What does that tell you?

Edgeworth: You could not have known about any risk involved related to the incident...
unless you had known some prior critical knowledge...
You knew that the fire could potentially happen!!

Rin Ohm: ...!

Edgeworth: Given that Mr. Wright's theory relies majorly on the theory that this was an accident...
my question for you is this one:
if it was an accident...
HOW do you know there were "some risks"?

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: Edgeworth, it was a library.
Libraries convey a risk of burning down...

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: That's what you'd think...
but not what Mr. Hikami would think.

He has shown in this cross-examination he has an extremely high-level of intellect,
and he immediately followed his admission that he "didn't foresee" the library's fire...
with an admission that he knew there were risks involved.

It's a contradiction!!

If he didn't know about the fire in the first place and caught him off guard...
how would he KNOW there were "some risks involved".

If even a kid can deduce a library is prone to being burned down...
he would know it by a long shot and NOT state something like that.

Therefore, the only logical conclusion here is...
he stated that the fire caught him off guard as a deliberated lie.

OBJECTION!
Azar: Ohhh... Mr. Edgyboy.
Why must you always arrive at the most damning conclusion every time huh?

These two statements are not logically exclusive like you think they are...
they are the crux of the true nature of the "thing" I've been talking about.

HOLD IT!
Edgeworth: Why don't you reveal it at once then?
YOU ARE AVOIDING IT LIKE THE PEST!!

Azar: Because that would be no fun.
You correctly deduced that this very thing is the key to unraveling this case...
which is why now that I know the secret about the AEH is out...
I wanted to have Grasshair come to the stand to state it to you personally.

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: You are using words to try to distract us from the core contradiction Edgeworth revealed...
Mr. Hikami, HALT this nonsense!!
The more you delay the "thing" you two were doing...
the MORE SUSPICIOUS you appear to be!!

Azar: Don't care.
I know how this is going to end anyways.
I have no reason to be worried about how I "might appear" like you do, Ms. Perfection.

Rin Ohm: Ack...!
HOW DARE YOU!?

HOLD IT!
Edgeworth: Mr. Hikami...
I cannot allow you to leave the stand if you are still appearing to be suspicious to us.
It would be simply irresponsible of me as a prosecutor.

You have fully disclosed that they have a secret that appears to incriminate you...
and your testimony holds the key to solving this case.

Look, I might appear as someone who wants to win their case at all costs...
but the truth is, what I care about is justice is served fairly.

You are therefore in a stalemate.
For the sake of this trial, and the sake of your friend...
I must politely ask you to please clear this doubt out of our minds.

Phoenix: ...
Rin Ohm: ...
Keithra: ...
Azar: ...

So, you finally decided to forfeit your two-dimensional game...
and pass into the real game behind the scenes.
Must admit, didn't think you had it in you.

I know of someone that would have that very same sense of duty...
Someone that would appeal to both logic and sincerity...
Someone who has followed both me and him till the very beginning...
Someone who has attempted her very best to fight against the impossible...
Someone who would otherwise have the same level of stubbornness and appeal for fairness as you.

Edgeworth: Is that so?

Phoenix: ...

Keithra: Who are you referring to Azar?

Azar: To the only person that is able to obligue me to follow norms.

Keithra: ...!
ZINDA!?

Phoenix: Zinda...?
You are referring to the former president of the group Zinda Yue?

Rin Ohm: Are you inferring that this has to do with...?

Azar: Connect the dots, will you?

What could Hemo and I be possibly researching that would require an artefact as powerful as the AEH?
And the knowledge about very complex Talent-based interactions with the Essence?
What kind of quest would fit that description...
that would fully require of our full investment on...
that is explicitly related to her?

Rin Ohm: ...!

Keithra: T-That's...

Rin Ohm: Keit?

Keithra: So...
That's why Hemo was so...

Edgeworth: Could you explain this to me?

Rin Ohm: Essence Impairment Disorder is a condition that happens to a fraction of the Cintrean population.
Some people are not predisposed to increasing their Leveling to certain heights...
so when they reach that critical Essence Level...
their Essence Shell starts to fracture under pressure without possibility of recovery.

As far as I am aware of, there are three types of EID:
Type I is the inactive one, the predisposition...
Type II is when the condition is triggered... which requires immediate medical attention...
And Type III, which is what Zinda Yue has, is considered to be a terminal disease.

Their shell is extremely brittle, and can fracture at any point in time,
which is why their Essence Conversion technology is immediately and permanently removed from their body.

Phoenix: I'm afraid that would be why she stepped down of her role as president, correct?

Rin Ohm: That is correct.

Another fatal consequence of EID Type II and III is the inability to feel emotions like a regular person would,
Type II makes the person emotionally volatile,  Type III makes them severely detached.

Both Ms. Kas Omou and I weren't there when it happened...
but I am afraid I know the full extent of the cataclysm that was for the group back then.

Azar: Precisely.
Robogirl might be a pain in the ass...
or on the head better said.
But she doesn't deserve to die over some stupid disease she had since birth.

Besides...
curing an incurable desease is the perfect intellectual challenge for me.
Does this solve your need for the truth, Mr. Obsession?
Or do you need to go home to lick your wounds?

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Checkmate.
You have been outplayed, Mr. Hikami.
I have forced you to confess something.

Azar: ...

Edgeworth: The confession is well-grounded I must admit...
it truly does fit your personality and even the records...
But there is a big problem with it if you truly start to think about it.

If the research for a cure for EID was the thing you were hiding all this time...
and you were utilizing the artefact to find it, which is consistent with your own profile...
that seems to corroborate something for us:
you have indeed been researching something with Mr. Kirskis.
Something that connects you DIRECTLY to the crime!!

Azar: Really...?
(Who gave this guy that many energy drinks?)

Phoenix: (He found something to twist again!?)

Edgeworth: I was thinking about something...
how is this connected with your foreknowledge of the incident?
I have now resolved precisely why that is!!

Azar: And what is that reason?

Edgeworth: Negligence, profound and damning negligence, Mr. Hikami.
And not one that would lift the charge of First-Degree Arson out of you.

Phoenix: WHAT!??

Edgeworth: There is an undeniable truth that has been obvious to us since the very beginning...
and that is the fire occurred and the library burned down.

Now, I am no longer arguing that you or Mr. Kirskis had the intent to actually burn down the library...
Mr. Wright right has done I great job at uncovering the fact that Mr. Kirskis...
appears to now not have the profile of a deliberated arsonist.

Therefore, hereby I lift my argument that Mr. Kirskis or you has had any intent on committing this crime.

That doesn't resolve anything, especially now that I've caught both of you red-handed.

Azar: Did you really...?

Edgeworth: Allow me demonstrate it to you.

TAKE THAT!
Edgeworth: To appeal to my former theory earlier...
I have caught you touching Trinket several times throughout the recordings...
we know that this very act can actually command Trinket to do deliberate acts for you.
We verified before through the recordings that Trinket went to the library's Utility Room...
but why did you send it there then?

Well... if we consider that you wanted to progress on your research to cure Ms. Yue from EID...
and consider the fact that Mr. Kirskis knew of the possibility of hacking the library's servers to save the book's back-up...
it would only be natural to deduce that you both are aware that servers can be hacked,
which we all know is true because Mr. Kirskis was the one with the recordings.

That means something crucial:

Trinket was the one that utilized the artefact to hack the systems.

How does this connect to everything?

Well... if we consider that you hacked the systems beforehand to try to get hidden data from the library for your own research's benefit...
and then the sprinklers deactivated as a side-effect result...
then YOU would be a direct culprit for the spread of the fire itself!!

Phoenix: (Oh no... I don't like where this is going...)

Now, how would I argue gross Reckless Endangerment that would lead to full-scale unintentional arson?

Remember what Ms. Aru argued was the started of the fire...
that Mr. Kirskis' robot, Trinket, started the fire unintentionally after scanning the book.
My argument for Reckless Endangerment here is that...
you knew that Trinket's scanners could potentially cause the fire.

Azar: Woah...

Edgeworth: If you helped Mr. Kirskis with something as complex as analyzing the artefact...
you could perfect know that Trinket's scanners could provoke such a thing...
proved by your very foreknowledge of the entire incident.

Therefore...
when you led Trinket to hack the servers for your own benefit...
and the book burned down because of the systematic failure of the robot you anticipated...

IT WAS GROSS NEGLIGENCE SO SHARP THAT IS UNDISTINGUISHABLE FROM INTENT!!

Azar: Hehehe...
...
Not bad, Mr. Turnabout.
You have officially earned my respect.
I almost want to call you Mr. Birb,  The Sequel...
you really did a decent job there.

Seems like it is no joke...
why you are a world-class prosecutor on this planet.

...

You have figured out a lot of things about what happened that day...
it's really something to behold how well your intuition sharpened.

Let me admit that I did have foreknowledge of the potential vulnerability of Trinket's scanners.

Edgeworth: So you are admitting guilt.

Azar: ...

...

Azar: Sike bitch!!

Edgeworth: ...!

OBJECTION!
Azar: For Trinket's scanners to burn that book,
to be possible the way it did,
it requires an energy redirection,
impossible by natural means.

Edgeworth: HUUUH!?

Phoenix: (This guy is seriously going to give me a heart attack...)

TAKE THAT!
Azar: The reaction caused wasn't something the book provoked itself,
that's something Mr. Birb figured out just some moments ago.
Yet that liability you mention there I had foreknowledge on...
is NOT something that would be considered hazardous by any mechanic standards.

It is a risk, just like it entails driving a vehicle or going on a spaceship,
but not a critical failure that had been overlooked.

Edgeworth: YOU CAN'T BE CORRECT ABOUT THAT!!

HOLD IT!
Rin Ohm: Hmm...
Hold on, let me think this for a minute.

Now that the charge of intent is off the table...
and that we know the book wasn't the cause of the fire...

...

I apologize, Mr. Edgeworth.

But my full analysis on Trinket's functionality through the blueprints show that...
for something like what happened with the scanners to occur...
there HAS to be some level of intentionality.

You know my own argument for Reckless Endangerment only...
was based on bringing a robot that could potentially cause a fire knowingly...
and leaving Trinket unsupervised on the library...
led it to deactivate the sprinklers by itself.

The current state of affairs is NOT COMPATIBLE with the start of the fire!!

Keithra: I-I... I agree...
I didn't know that specific technicality of Trinket's functions but...
I find that pretty intuitive based on what I know.

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: That STILL DOESN'T excuse him sending Trinket to-

OBJECTION!
Azar: Bud, I didn't send Trinket to the Utility Room.
The robot was near me several times but...
I was too focused on my own research.

I don't pride on using forbidden knowledge to solve my problems...
I want full victory based only on my intellect and the resources I have available.

Robogirl's condition is critical, yes,
she could die today or tomorrow...
but can't we all?

Her Type III is not at its last phase just yet,
it is not like sneezing is going to kill her.

Besides... I don't have Great Link system access to Trinket.

I cannot command it like Grasshair can, I can show my Great Link reports if you need 'em.
And I don't even have any reason for hacking Trinket either, even if I wanted to.
I could simply tell him directly instead.

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: You could perfectly HACK your own syst-

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: ...
Mr. Edgeworth, stop it.
It is useless right now, this line of questioning is OVER, you are out of options here.

...

One thing is hacking results for an exam...
another is accessing the Great Link system's archives to get access to data...
but another thing that is COMPLETELY different is modifying your personal Great Link data log.

The Great Link is what it is because of its unbreakable encrypted code...
that only the Yuhan Authority has access to.

Not even Mr. Hikami's brilliance could crack that code...
since it is deeply ingrained onto your Essence Shell.

Doing so would not only be very energy draining...
which is INCOMPATIBLE with his condition,
but would also instantly kill him on the spot.

What you are offering here is by definition IMPOSSIBLE to do.
It would be like modifying a person's consciousness without expecting consequences.
It would not only destroy your SPIRIT...
but best case scenario damage the person's connection with the Great Link itself entirely.

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: It is not impossible Ms. Rin Ohm,
what if the artefact can crack even that code?
What makes you so sure that he is indeed telling the truth?

OBJETION!
Rin Ohm: The artefact as described by Mr. Hikami does NOT have the ability to do such a thing.
Essence Conversion is a broad branch of a rigid and rigorous scientific framework.
You CANNOT compare affecting the Non-Generative matter alignment of physical systems..
with the very foundational engravement of the  SOUL the Great Link system is based upon.

It is the foundational stone of the entire Cintrean Meritocracy,
what allows for people to be identified and evaluated for meritocratic ranking,

you cannot compete with against such HARD facts.

Edgeworth: ...

Rin Ohm: We have to admit here...
that it is much more likely now...
that the one who accessed the Utility Room through Trinket is not Mr. Hikami...
but someone who had HACKED the robot itself...
and told it to turn off the sprinklers.

The case for intentional arson is NOT off the table.
The TRUE CULPRIT for this crime is out there!!
And NOW our duty is...
to find out just WHO THAT PERSON REALLY IS!!

Azar: Well said.
Not bad for it being your first day, Ms. Anger Issues.

Phoenix: Saved by the person who made our life impossible initially...
what an irony, isn't it, Keit?

Keithra: I mean...
Urza is still our classmate after all...

...

GAVEL SLAM x3
Judge: Very well then...
we have come a long way ever since this trial started.
However, I cannot yield my verdict just yet until all possibility has been discarded.
This is because of the robot being Mr. Kirskis' property.

We do not know how linked he is to this possible third party...
or if he had a say with how it burned that book that day.
If Mr. Kriskis had knowledge of this person's intentions...
and still decided to not tell the authorities about it...
he still can be charged of Reckless Endangerment at the very least.
So the trial is not over for him.

With all of this being said...

GAVEL SLAM
Judge: our purpose in this trial has shifted massively after our current revelations.
We have now the open possibility of there being another person involved in the crime.

While under Ecuian law this would regularly be grounds to dismiss the trial for further investigation...
the law presented by the Jusnean Tribunal obligues us to continue the trial until we reach an impasse.

So to proceed and before we have a chance to call Mr. Kirskis to the stand...
as it is my duty as a judge under the stipulations of the Cintrean-Lurian Alliance...

GAVEL SLAM
Judge: I am going to task Ms. Rin Ohm with the responsibility of naming our potential suspects for review.

Rin Ohm: As per procedures, Your Honor.

Judge: Mr. Hikami, your time here has finally ended.
Please, step out of the stand.

Azar: Well, can't say I predicted everything happening here exactly as it played out...
but it was fun anyways.
Don't go burn the backyard without me.

Phoenix: We won't, I promise.

Keithra: Thanks Azar...
sorry we had to put you through this.

Azar: Pff...
I didn't break a sweat.

See ya, Count Dracula.
See ya, Mr. 4D Noob.

Azar leaves the courtroom.

Judge: Now that Mr. Hikami is gone... 
we can proceed with the hopefully last phase of our trial.

GAVEL SLAM
Judge: Ms. Rin Ohm, you may begin with your data review.

Rin Ohm: Of course, Your Honor.



According to the reports I received from both Ecuian police and the Naori Command Security Squad officials...
there were precisely 54 people inside that library the moment of the incident.

While most of them were Knowledge-Seekers taking the opportunity of the Maron's Gift holiday to study quickly...
some of them didn't exactly have that kind of profile.

There were students from all different parts of the city...
from both its public university, the University of Abstrya...
and the academies present around all sectors of  Ecuia City's metropolitan center.

When the fire occurred, it took most of them by surprise.
They were clearly not expecting any of this happen...
nor could they possibly hack a robot like Trinket.

Knowledge-Seeking might be good for acquiring knowledge, but it is not used for modification,
Construction utilizes elements to create materials, but it isn't nearly as precise...
and Empaths simply cannot affect Trinket's non-essence based machinery.

This leaves us with a limited pool of intuitive potential suspects:
we have to consider either the staff at the library themselves working with a co-conspirator...
which we know is capable of accessing the Utility Room;
or a third-party that has the necessary abilities...
to maneuver both events themselves.

Phoenix: I want to add to the court record that there is more than one person...
who has precisely the profile that Ms. Rin Ohm points out,
which is why I have the following report on nine of the twelve people...
saved by Ms. Sathki Naeru's heroism that day.

I figured that if there were to be someone who could potentially want to frame Mr. Kirskis for the crime...
HAS to be someone who knows him well!!

HOLD IT!
Edgeworth: I don't think you are considering some important factors here, Mr. Wright.
Animosity against the Cintrean Meritocracy's influence is a feeling that many a Lurian share.
We have to think that if Mr. Kirskis has worked with a potential third-party...
ANY student could have helped him achieve what he wanted!!

OBJECTION!
Keithra: I very much doubt that, Mr. Edgeworth.
I may only be a student and a counsel in this trial...
but I have access to Wega Academy's student reports as vice-president of Group C9A.

Said reports tell me that Hemo hasn't had any major contact with anyone outside of Wega Academy...
or members of our own group's private social circle.

Judge: You didn't mention you were vice-president, Ms. Kas Omou!!

Keithra: Sorry, I forgot to mention that...
Hehehe...

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: That DOESN'T remove the possibility of him having contact with a third-party...
since those reports do not account for potential online planification.

HOLD IT!
Phoenix: Ms. Rin Ohm, are you implying that Mr. Kirskis had used the AEH...
to bypass the school's and the library's firewalls designed to protect students...
to communicate with this third-party we don't know about?

Rin Ohm: Essentially, yes.
Which is highly likely given his record of cheating and misconduct.
...

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: I'm sorry, but that is not possible.
While the AEH is capable of hacking Lurian machinery like it does Cintrean...
you are forgetting a very crucial component that would be required to alter for that to work.
THE GREAT LINK SYSTEM DATABASE!!

Rin Ohm: What are you insinuating, Mr. Wright?
That you know the Great Link system better than I do?
DON'T MAKE ME LAUGH!!!

OBJECTION!
Keithra: He maybe doesn't...
BUT I DO!!
You are forgetting something about the Great Link, Rin.
And that is that in order to access Lurian machinery...
you need to TOUCH IT yourself.

This maybe not something that is valid if Trinket as a robot executes things.
But if we are talking about him accessing Lurian devices to communicate with people...
that's virtually IMPOSSIBLE to do without the Great Link data log catching it!!

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: I did NOT forget how the Great Link works on that front, KAS OMOU!!
He maybe cannot access the device without his deflectors catching the interference...
BUT HE CAN TELL TRINKET TO DO IT!!

OBJECTION!
Keithra: He CAN'T make Trinket do it!!
That is NOT HOW TRINKET WORKS!!
Trinket's programming doesn't extent to communication,
it is an ENGINEERING ASSISTANT!!

Hemo might be capable of ordering it to hack the Utility Room's systems...
but it is NOT capable of communicating like it would be necessary!!

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: That robot is designed to EMULATE communication through synthesized sounds...
it is NOT beyond doubt that it would be capable of processing language!!

OBJECTION!
Keithra: That is NOT how Hemo programmed that robot!!!

Those sounds aren't explicit communication...
there are meant for Hemo to GUESS what it might be wanting to say!!!

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: Which means it must have a MESSAGE it wants to CONVEY!!

OBJECTION!
Keithra: Regardless of the message, Trinket is not a PERSON!!
You CANNOT compare language with robot electronics...
YOU ARE BEING SO IGNORANT!!

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: NO, YOU ARE THE ONE BEING  IGNORANT!!

OBJECTION!
Keithra: I KNOW WHAT I AM TALKING ABOU-!!

HOLD IT!
Edgeworth: ENOUGH!!!

...

Edgeworth: Ms. Kas Omou, clarify what are you meaning by this.

Keithra: That Trinket simply cannot process language like we do.
It doesn't have a large language model installed.
It wouldn't be capable of communicating with a person online.
It CAN comprehend language, but it CAN'T have human-level conversations.
It is supposed to be a  robot assistant and a pet.

Edgeworth: Hrmm...
That does seem to fit what my experts have told me about the blueprints.
Ms. Rin Ohm, what did I tell you about letting animosities cloud your judgment?

Rin Ohm: Hmph...
Not your business...

Keithra: I have no idea why you are being like this, Urza.

...

But if I did anything to annoy you, I'm sorry okay?

Rin Ohm: ...
...
Fine, I concede.
Your knowledge supersedes mine on this matter...
Ms. Kas Omou...

Keithra: You can call me Keit if you want...

Rin Ohm: ...

I won't refer to you by the name your friends call you by.
I am NOT your friend, don't ever think I am.
Be that as it may...
Kas is fine.

Keithra: That's good enough.


Phoenix: So, now that the situation with Ms. Rin Ohm is resolved,
I want to go over all the people whose information I have gathered.
This is for filtering out the true culprit,
so to make this easier for us,
I'll name them in alphabetical order.

Let's start from the top...

Celes Coruva...
Constructor archeologist and historian from the University of Abstrya.
Currently doing her Ph. D. in an internship.

Second her sister, Condans Coruva,
Empath neurologist from the same university,
who was seen diligently researching for her thesis.

Third, Celes' boyfriend, Knowledge-Seeker Endrys Carnyl,
A lawyer student with excellent grades.
Very well-put together and dressed,
leader of an important university movement.

Fourth, Iluia Zu Xin,
Ms. Rin Ohm's personal demoiselle, member of Group C9A.
Was seen around her protegee most of the time,
but also spent time alone on the library's cafeteria.

Fifth, Kylin Imnei, Condance's friend.
Extraverted and energetic musician Seducer,
was seen in the library checking some music scores.

Sixth, Noah Dunys, Kylin's and Condance's friend,
Shielder 3D artist and graphic designer.
Seen drawing some drafts on the cafeteria.

Seventh, Tomochika Amai, student at Wega Academy.
Knowledge-Seeking enthusiast, best student in school officially, just shy of Herman Paul.
Spent her time studying near where Azar Hikami was, who has just surpassed her in performance.

Eighth, Urza Rin Ohm, Jusnean accountant from Group C9A.
The very arbiter of law that is helping us solve this case right now.
Aside from accompanying her assistant,
she was minding her own business observing the shelfs at the library.

And finally, ninth, Yukari Hashi,
Tomochika's best friend and also student at Wega.
She was using her Shielding to study and play games peacefully at the library's computers.

Now, out of all of these potential suspects...
those who appear to have the capabilities necessary to perform the crime at first glance are:

Celes Coruva, due to her incredibly technical Constructor skills,

Endrys Carnyl, due to his connections with the university,

Kylin Imnei, due to her unnaturally powerful Seducing being capable of mentally compromising people,

Tomochika Amai, due to her advanced, almost exceptional grades,

and Urza Rin Ohm herself, due to her highly technical skills and knowledge.

Phoenix: Now, before we proceed with this investigation, I want to propose an uncommon petition to the court.

Rin Ohm: ...

Edgeworth: ...

Keithra: ...

Judge: What would that be, Mr. Wright?

Phoenix: I'd like to call Ms. Rin Ohm to take the stand!!

Rin Ohm: ...!

Keithra: ...!

Gallery noise

GAVEL SLAM x3
Judge: ORDER IN THE COURT!!!

Edgeworth: You cannot just DO THAT, Mr. Wright.
Ms. Rin Ohm is a court official in this trial!!
Making her halt her status as Jusnean accountant is NOT PERMITTED by Ecuian law!!

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: That might be under normal circumstances,
but after interviewing Ms. Rin Ohm when I did my investigation...
I realized Jusnean accountant officials aren't immune to cross-examination under their own law!!

In Cintre defendants are allowed to defend themselves in court...
and in a similar fashion, as stipulated by the Yuhan Doctrine Statue 11,
article XVI of the Jusnean Tribunal accountant obligations:

"In case the jurisdiction of an Accountant is put into question by trial proceedings..."
"the Accountant themselves, for the honor of their own meritocratic standing..."
"is obliged to put themselves subject to the very proceedings in court."

"In case there are other officers capable of withholding the burden of impartiality..."
"being that a Supervisor or Sanctioner..."
"their very charge must be negated until their suspicion is dismissed."

This means that as long as we have the Judge you can step down from your charge as Accountant!!

Rin Ohm: ...

...

Urza takes the stand.

Gallery noise.

GAVEL SLAM x3
Judge: I acknowledge the unconventionality of this situation.
But what must be done, must be done.

Please, state your name and profession.

Rin Ohm: As the legitimate heiress of the Luthnean Rin Ohm heritage...
as I stand in this trial, I go by the name of Urza Rin Ohm.
I am a Jusnean accountant licensed by the Jusnean Tribunal...
and member of Group C9A within Iris Academy's cultural exchange program.

Judge: Ms. Rin Ohm, just to clarify for the court record...
I understand that you are currently about to enroll as a Refinement student...
after the preliminary phase of the program ends.
If you are still an Utam, why do you have a Jusnean accountant license already?

Rin Ohm: Your Honor, after a Tribunal student finishes Synthesis...
it is required of them that they exercise their profession.
It is unlike other ministries, since the complexity of the task...
demands them to have experience early on.
This is why I was allowed to take this case myself...
as it is one of the only ones available  in Lurian grounds.

Judge: Understood, thank you for the clarification.
Will you say the truth, and only the truth?

Rin Ohm: OF COURSE I WILL, MY CAREER IS ON THE LINE!!

Judge: Understandable.
Mr. Wright, the floor is yours.
This better have a thorough justification.

Phoenix: It does, Your Honor.
We have to discard all possibilities first.

...

Phoenix: Since this is unique to us as it does not follow normal testimony nor cross-examination procedures,
let me perform my interrogation just as it would be done in the Meritocracy.

Regulations stated within the Doctrine make it clear:
you will have to justify your actions with the data available about your presence within the Great Link,
and then you will be put under rigorous questioning.

Please proceed, Ms. Rin Ohm.

Phoenix: You know what to do.

Rin Ohm: ...
Fine, Mr. Wright.
Let's get over with this.



It was 10:21 AM when Zu and I went inside the library...
to facilitate my research on some Lurian legal books I checked up on.

Rin Ohm: The particular volume I was seeking didn't seem to be where one would normally expect to get it...
so I was forced to waste my time searching for it.
Cameras show the librarian wasn't present when I when we arrived...
and I did not have the desire to bother Zu with such a nuisance.

Thus I allowed her to stay at the library's cafeteria to rest.
It was a fine morning that day,
and ever since we have set foot in Ecuia...
I did not require of her constant medical surveillance.

It was particularly odd that they appeared to have hidden that book...
I was there in the library a week prior, I saw it in there,
and according to registry, and its webpage told us it was not under loan.
I attempted to find it that entire morning...
until there was no further use.

Sathki Naeru rescued my assistant first...
knowing that her unawareness wouldn't give her a sense of urgency.
I did not require her aid, but she still insisted to help,
so she guided me towards an exit as fast as she could.

I left the building at exactly 12:34 PM, eight minutes after the fire alarm started to sound.
I entered contact no longer than five minutes with Ms. Naeru, Mr. Kirskis and his robot.
I DID NOT have the patience to deal with Ms. Aru or Mr. Hikami's antics.

For the honor of my bloodline, that is it, which has occurred and begone.

Judge: Very well, thank you for your testimony Ms. Rin Ohm.
Mr. Wright, your turn to find any contradiction.

Phoenix: That'll be my duty, Your Honor.

Edgeworth: Proceed with caution, Mr. Wright.

Keithra: (How could Urza be taking all of this...?)

Phoenix: Ms. Rin Ohm, prepare your Great Link system for your defense.

Rin Ohm: ...



Let's end with this nonsense.

CROSS-EXAMINATION (URZA RIN OHM: PHASE I)

"It was 10:21 AM when Zu and I entered the library..."
"to facilitate my research on some Lurian legal books I checked up on."

HOLD IT!
Phoenix: Ms. Rin Ohm, can you explain to us what legal books you where researching on?
I know that you are a Jusnean accountant...
but doesn't your profession specialize on Cintrean law?

Rin Ohm: Yes, yes it does.
That's the foundation of a Jusnean accountant on Cintre,
though things changed drastically...
as soon as the cultural exchange program started.

You see, as this very trial demonstrates...
my presence here demands that as soon as a Cintrean gets in trouble with the law...
I would be available for their full accounting.

HOLD IT!
Phoenix: If that is the case, Ms. Rin Ohm...
Would you say you that you were preparing for a potential case?

Rin Ohm: Yes, that would be correct.
It is what is considered most intuitive for an accounting student entering Refinement.

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: Yet Refinement school doesn't start after two months have passed.
Just how could you be searching for a specific book...
if you don't know the kind of case you were preparing for?

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: Mr. Wright, electability started as soon as Synthesis was over.
You should know better than anyone I should practice theoretical cases for it!!

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: Yet you were very adamant on acquiring that specific volume.
Couldn't you simply shift tactics and practice a different case altogether?

OBEJETION!
Rin Ohm: You don't even know the volume I was lacking!!



According to the data I recollected from the library's website,
the second volume of the Ecuian Rules of Court was available in storage.
It is very specific and vital regulations manual that SHOULD NOT be lend to just about anyone!!

I know what you may be thinking...
but you fail to consider I am a Tribunal student attempting to understand Lurian law...
that at the time could have been compelled anytime to serve IN COURT!!

HOLD IT!
Phoenix: What made you so sure you were going to be called?
You know that you are one of the only youngsters from Alninam to have come to Luria.
You are unexperienced, 
they could have perfectly just called a professional accountant instead.

Rin Ohm: DO NOT dare to call me youngster!!
I may be new to the practical field...
but I have the FULL CAPABILITES of a regular accountant!!!

Phoenix: I have no doubt about that.
Yet we have to still consider...
that there are so many loopholes you could take an opportunity from...
but this one, I know EXACTLY what your thought process was.

Rin Ohm: ...

Phoenix: As it has happened to me at the beginning of my career...
it is most preferable that a court officer has personal stakes involved in their first case...
to fully demonstrate their commitment to their job.

You evidently knew that you were in a student body...
with individuals like Mr. Kirskis and Mr. Hikami in it.
Two unpredictable people that according to your own perspective...were fully both were fully capable of committing a crime at any moment.

This makes me think that you were expecting them to slip up at some point...
and then seize the opportunity and take excuse of proximity...
to offer a high-stakes situation.
Such a situation could easily boost your career tremendously...
so I propose the following:
YOU were insistent on searching that particular book...
for a reason  any lawyer would behave the way you did in that very same position:

BECAUSE THAT SPECIFIC CLAUSE I MENTIONED WAS WITHIN THAT SECOND VOLUME!!

Rin Ohm: ...!

TAKE THAT!
Phoenix: I know my books... I am a diligent lawyer myself.
I know PRECISELY what you may have been seeking...
because when I took the case of my friend Larry Butz three years ago...
I saw that read about that same clause...
and saw that very same opportunity myself too.

If we consider the possibility of you wanting to frame one of your classmates...
especially someone like Mr. Kirskis which you hold in contempt for his past...
you may very well be searching to confirm that clause...
so that when Mr. Kirskis is inevitably caught...
you would be guaranteed to take on his case.

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: That doesn't make any sense.
Someone as diligent and hardworking as Ms. Rin Ohm...
would NOT BE as careless to not double-check the book beforehand!!

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: Ohhh... but what if she tried?
Remember what she just said?

"I was there in the library a week prior, I saw it in there,"
"and according to registry, and its webpage told us it was not under loan."

Phoenix: She was there a week prior... and SAW it in there.
She never admittedly testified that she opened it.
Therefore, it would only be intuitive to conclude...
THAT SHE WENT THERE BACK THEN FOR THE FIRST VOLUME FIRST!!

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: Mr. Wright, the first volume does NOT contain the clause you cite nor any mention of it.
I could NOT have known about it from there.

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: Oh... from there no.
But online.

Ms. Rin Ohm, when it comes to law book series like the one you were attempting to find...
most online databases do not split them in volumes like books do.

It is perfectly plausible for you to think the clause was within the first volume...
and borrowing that volume yourself to take it home.

Just for then after realizing it was not there and thus...
PANIC about finding the second physical volume to verify that clause.

The reason why you were saying it "had no further use",
is because you saw the clause online already,
so you just assumed the digital book was likely to be correct.

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: And why would Ms. Rin Ohm do something as RECKLESS as assuming the clause was in there!?
You just need to check the page numbers!!

OBJECTON!
Phoenix: Law book series are split on roughly 550 pages Edgeworth...
this is what is most convenient for size due to book manufacturing,
it is an industry standard that maintains its rigidity.

However when it comes to law documents online...
page numbers can be altered due to change in formatting as knowledge is transferred.
I know the clause is in the first 30 pages of the second volume...
so the shift could have perfectly made it seem it was contained in the first book.

What do you say, Ms. Rin Ohm...
something to confess about this?

Rin Ohm: ...
Alright, yes.
I acknowledge I am concerned on that front.

Edgeworth: ...!

Rin Ohm: I did make that mistake...
...
and I did want to check on that clause.

Phoenix: Knew you were.
Care to provide us the reason why you did it?

Rin Ohm: It's similar to what you were saying...
BUT I DID NOT FRAME ANYONE FOR THAT CRIME!!
...
I simply wanted to know...
if I was ever going to be chosen for accounting.

Phoenix: What made you so desperate on wanting to get that book?

Rin Ohm: ...

Mr. Wright, four months had passed ever since I came here.
In those four months... I was never called once for a trial.

I wanted to verify the possibility that if Mr. Kirskis...
or anyone of the Cintrean students in the program got in trouble...
I could even be electable for their accounting.
...

Or at the very least...
if I would be able to protect HER.

Phoenix: Her? You mean Iluia Zu Xin, your assistant?
Why would she ever get in trouble?

Rin Ohm: ...
Mr. Wright, Zu is a Luthnean with Vhuluo heritage...
that makes her process emotions and even logic in a very different way as we do.
Since she has been more independent recently...
I am afraid that she could do something that could put her in court.

Keithra: Rin...

Rin Ohm: It's something that has happened before...
she has been sanctioned several times...
for not following Cintrean norms.

Being... too complaint or agreeable.

A Vhuluo like her is NOT meant to live a life beyond servitude.
Yet ever since the cultural exchange program began...
she has been more of a person than ever before.

...
...

I know I may appear to have anticipated the crime that happened that day.
But I can assure you that it was merely a coincidence,
an ironic yet gruesome twist crafted by destiny itself.

After all, the legal documents online are trusted source materials...
for a plan as masterful and convoluted as this...
there is no need for corroboration and appearing suspicious.

I simply DID NOT find credible that it is incentivized...
staying impartial in a trial involving someone close to you personally as a first trial test!!

So it was vital for me that day...
that I could just get to see it written for myself...

Phoenix: Understood, Ms. Rin Ohm.
I thank you for your honest testimony.

Your Honor, there is no point in continuing this...
so I would like to stop my cross-examination.
I've got exactly what I needed.

Judge: Very well, Mr. Wright.
If you decide further cross-examination is not required, then it is decided.

GAVEL SLAM
Judge: I formally declare this unusual phase of the trial has finally ended.

...

Judge: It is confirmed then...
Ms. Rin Ohm is highly unlikely to have been the culprit behind the crime.
Because of this, and since we need of her help with the procedures of this trial...
as the impartial official mentioned in the statute Mr. Wright cited...
I hereby restore Ms. Rin Ohm's credentials as a Jusnean accountant.

GAVEL SLAM
Judge: Ms. Rin Ohm, you may now return to your original location.
Rin Ohm: Thank you... Your Honor.

...

Rin Ohm: ...
Phoenix: ...

Alright, now that Ms. Rin Ohm is with us again...
let's break her testimony down together to get precisely what it may mean for us.

Given that staff is missing, she diligently searches verification of that one unconventional rule...
she then dismisses her assistant Iluia Zu Xin to enable her personal agency...
after a three hour search, she realizes that the book is nowhere to be found...
and the fire breaks out not long after, forcing her to abandon her quest.

Ms. Rin Ohm, is an accurate summary of the events?

Rin Ohm: Yes, it is accurate.
Have you found anything that could help us find our culprit?

Phoenix: Yes, I have.

Just think for a bit Ms. Rin Ohm, why would that book suddenly be missing?
Or any books that have anything referring to that clause for that matter.

Rin Ohm: The staff must have needed them for something...
I would assume that.

Phoenix: Nope, it couldn't have been that simple.
Just think for a moment what just happened.
You were suspicious enough to warrant your very Cintrean authority to be overwritten momentarily.

What if we think that by taking all of those books themselves...
they would have the power to make you seem suspicious...
all of this because they knew YOU enough to be capable of framing you as well.


Rin Ohm: ...!
Are you suggesting that the fact the volume wasn't there...
wasn't a matter of coincidence like I thought it was...
but a premeditated act to frame me!??

Phoenix: Why yes, wouldn't it be genius?
If the criminal had knowledge of your search for that clause...
they certainly would have done the perfect thing for getting you to act suspiciously.

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: Mr. Wright, it wasn't guaranteed Ms. Rin Ohm would have come back for that book.
The legal documents online still exists.

Phoenix: Of course they do, that's how they made the plan in the first place.
They would have pieced together the why of Ms. Rin Ohm's quest,
by just observing her and her behavior the week prior.

So if we consider they know she is not a Lurian because of her eye color and her assistant's hair...
and that she is one reading law books of all things,
it is perfectly reasonable for them to deduce that she is THE Jusnean Tribunal student studying at Wega Academy.

So knowing that she was that particular person...
someone could perfectly act in accordance to that information.

As no news about her acting as an accountant have been released to the public,
they would know she is has not yet been in trial.

So knowing that she would likely be forced to take the case...
to perhaps in their perspective to protect her classmate,

they would preemptively make her seem suspicious...
in case we figure out it wasn't Mr. Kirskis and the hunt for the real culprit begins.
We have to consider that whoever did all of this...
has to know about Mr. Kirskis at the very least.
So it is very intuitive to assume that the culprit...
would have locked in on the information regarding the Alninam students at Wega.

HOLD IT!
Edgeworth: So you are now agreeing with my previous observation...
regarding the Meritocracy's bad reputation within Luria in certain spheres.

Phoenix: I never disagreed with that possibility, Edgeworth.
I just let Ms. Kas Omou counter the assumption you made about Mr. Kirskis working with them.
You can get to "know Mr. Kirskis well" not only by knowing him within the academy...
but also by specifically getting intel from Wega Academy's news outlet...
the one led by Lurian cultural exchange member Wayra Taron.

Keithra: You are not accusing Wayra of being accomplice to all of this, are you!?

Phoenix: No, Ms. Taron is clear to not have such profile.
Her determined need for reporting every detail of Wega student life...
is something that far precedes the cultural exchange program's conception.

I think that it is rather that they took advantage of her passion for journalism...
to get informed about the Cintrean students at Wega and their weaknesses...
just to then hit them where it hurts worse by taking advantage of the potential liability Trinket is.

Rin Ohm: So you are saying it's not only probable they analyzed my movements...
but that of all of the other Group C9A members to find the perfect moment to strike.

Phoenix: Which undoubtably so, was Day of Maron's Gift...
given that the Alninam students would most likely be there to study.

It is after all a cultural exchange program and the first time they ever experience it,
so it is only natural for a diligent Cintrean to go to the library on a holiday...
where you are supposed to find your way to study to pay honors to the God of Knowledge-Seeking.

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: I will admit that this seems like a very logical plan...
however there is an issue with this Mr. Wright.
I find it very unlikely they utilized Ms. Taron's journalism to know about the students' weaknesses.

Phoenix: What do you mean, Edgeworth?
The weekly report Wayra writes is full to the brim with data about Group C9A.

Edgeworth: It may be, but I took my time to read all 17 reports she has published ever since the program started...
and I know for a fact that certain intel would have been impossible to acquire just by reading them.
Like for example, how would have they known about Ms. Rin Ohm's connection to her assistant?
Or what about Mr. Hikami's specific quest for curing Zinda Yue?

Not even Ms. Kas Omou herself deduced it would have been for something like that,
and she not only vice-president, but also deeply aware of the group's dynamics.

I insist that the person who committed all of this...
must have KNOWN about these details from someone inside,
NAMELY someone like Mr. Kirskis himself.

Besides, there is a strategic flaw in your theory.

If the mastermind behind all of this frames Hemo Kirskis IV...
and then in court we dismiss his pirate heritage as a potential motive as we did,
the fact that Mr. Kirskis IV has apparent no means to communicate with an outsider...
narrows down the pool of suspects to just people from Wega Academy itself.

It would have been a suicide plan for the orchestrator,
especially since it is publicly known the Naori Command heavily monitors the exchange program.
There HAS to be a way Mr. Kirskis can communicate with the outside world...
to make all of this HAPPEN in the first place!!

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: No Edgeworth, it doesn't narrow things down to Wega Academy.
Because I know of more than a way the criminal could have known about all of this information...
in a WAY that isn't necessary for Mr. Kirskis to ever be involved!!!

Edgeworth: ...!

TAKE THAT!
Phoenix: ...
Let's go back to the suspects I have introduced a while ago, shall we?
This is going to clear things out for you.

Remember Endrys Carnyl, the lawyer from the University of Abstrya?
He is leader of an important movement from that university.

What kind of movement you may be asking right now?
The kind of movement that would allow you to gather sensitive intel!!

Let us indulge ourselves in the lore behind the University of Abstrya.
Figures that within that university more things have happened than you are aware of, Edgeworth.

When I interviewed Condans Coruva about why she was in the library back then,
she pointed me to her thesis on a paranormal phenomenon happening to people during sleep.

This took my immediate interest, since as you may be recalling from previous cases I have taken,
we know unnatural phenomena such as this are possible.

So I dug deeper into this rabbit hole, just to find out this ties back to Mr. Carnyl's movement,
which appeared to be an organization to help students have better grades.

How you may be asking?

Well, Ms. Condans Coruva's thesis is being written based on astral travel,
lucid dreamers with a certain ability appear to have the ability to exit their dream,
into a collective dreamscape known as the Abstracta.

Remember that Mr. Carnyl's scores appeared to be impeccably brilliant?

Six months ago it had been confirmed that a particular event happened within the campus,
channeled by Mr. Carnyl's affinity to lucid dream,
which had allowed him to access to this plane,
and interact with the entities that make up the Abstracta named as "abstracts".

These creatures appeared to be manifestations of the Talents within Luria,
which upon serving allegiance to them allowed him to have influence in the physical world...
and get knowledge he otherwise should not have gotten.

The movement he created was meant to share this knowledge with a few selected individuals,
the more people were connected to his chosen "abstracts",
the more power and influence he would receive from them,
and the more capable of securing his stance as a leader and impeccable student he would have.

I know you may be thinking that all of this is pseudo-science,
and thus should not be taken into account for this.

I'm sorry, but that cannot be.

Dr. Adgar Yalwarth, Ms. Coruva's mentor and neurologist,
is known for his extreme adherence to the scientific method.

Ms. Coruva told me he rejected several drafts of her thesis,
before calling them exactly that, pseudo-science.

However this discovery was so undeniable that even he was forced to accept its terms,
and use his resources in the investigation that Ms. Coruva is now performing with him.
I would STRONGLY ARGUE against any kind of objection on simply dismissing this matter!!

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: Are you suggesting Mr. Wright, that there exists a spacetime continuum,
which possesses creatures that have such influence on the real world...
THEY CAN GRANT KNOWLEDGE OF THINGS DREAMERS DO NOT KNOW ABOUT!??

THAT IS ABSURD!!! THE WILDEST, STUPIDIEST THING I HAVE HEARD IN MY LIFE!!!
IT IS NOT EVEN A COMMON TALENT PHENOMENON!!!
DO NOT BY ANY CIRCUMSTANCES BRING SUCH PITIFUL THEORIES TO THIS COURT!!!

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: THE EVIDENCE IS UNDENIABLE, MS. RIN OHM!!!
I know this is a breakthrough of unfathomable proportions...
a SCIENTIFIC breakthrough, not historical.

The origin of the Talents has always been a matter of research for our erudites.
And while many religions point towards the existence of deities...
and they have never been confirmed to exist...
we know the energy stored within the Talents is meta-physical.

Which under the scientific framework of Essence Conversion and Utilization,
that equates to the complexity within systems.

Let me give you a rundown on how this connects to the Abstracta itself:
it is theorized that THERE EXISTS a plane beyond the physical,
essential for the functioning of both of our spacetime continuums.

It is the thing that enables "dark matter conversion",
which we know fuels your society.

If we consider that dark matter has not yet been detected in our continuum...
we can perfectly deduce that the secondary plane where the Talents came from...
possesses a nature FAR DIFFERENT than it does Alninam's!!!

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: Regardless of that, Essence and Talents share the same principle!!
It is the COMPLEXITY of systems that allows for consciousness to exist!!
It is NOT anything that goes BEYOND the information present on the physical universe!!!
IT IS A BYPRODUCT OF THE  PHYSICAL UNIVERSE'S COMPLEXITY!!

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: Talents may share the same principle, but they DO NOT follow the exact same rules!!
Remember that the Talents can be ENGRAVED onto objects...
which is something that the Essence cannot do.
THIS IS GIVES IT AUTONOMY FROM THE COMPLEXITY OF THE PHYSICAL PLANE!!

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: WRONG, THE TALENTS ARE A PRODUCT OF YOUR PEOPLE'S MENTAL COMPLEXITY!!

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: PRECISELY!! WHICH REFLECTS ON THE NATURE OF THE ABSTRACTA ITSELF!!

OBJECTION!
Keithra: Mr. Wright, Superior Energy can in fact be engraved onto objects...
it's just that how it manifests is quite different from Talent engravement.

Phoenix: Really? I-I assumad it couldn't.

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: That is PRECISELY why all of this sounds so WRONG!!
All of these are based on CRAZY ASSUMPTIONS backed up by an university professor who has LOST IT!!
YOU CANNOT use such pseudo-science and pretend it is a valid thing to use in COURT!!

OBJECTION!
Phoenix: I have utilized paranormal phenomena before to prove my points!!
This kind of thing isn't ANY DIFFERENT from that!!
AND I WILL PROVE IT TO YOU!!!

OBJECTION!
Edgeworth: No, it is NOT, Mr. Wright.

That time you had Maya Fey in order to prove your point,
a spirit medium who channeled the spirit of Mia Fey in front of our very eyes.

Right now you don't have ANY MEANS to actually validate your outlandish claims!!
You CANNOT expect us to just believe you!!

Phoenix: Fine, don't believe me then.
I'll have someone from the group to testify...
and corroborate all of my "crazy theories" personally themselves.

I CALL ENDYS KARNYL TO TAKE THE STAND!!

Judge: Understood, Mr. Wright.
We'll have Mr. Karnyl testify about this to get to the bottom of things.

GAVEL SLAM
Judge: Before we do this however, a pause is required for us to collect our thoughts...
and allow him and the rest of the group to prepare for his testimony.

Let us hope that all of this investigation will not be in vain,
and finally solves this case for good.

GAVEL SLAM x3
Judge: That is all, this court is adjourned until further notice.