OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: Hahahahaha!
Not too shabby, Mr. Wright.
You seem to be good at derailing the trial on your own terms!!
Nevertheless...

what you posed may be based on the prosecution's untimed unpreparedness,
but 'retrieving' those recordings himself DOES NOT exempt Mr. Kirskis from guilt.

Why?

Because they weren't retrieved, they were confiscated.

You argue that the fact he got those recordings himself makes him seem noble.

BUT THAT'S CLEARLY DELUSIONAL!!
IT MEANS THE ENTIRE OPPOSITE THING!!

Phoenix: What are you on about now?

Rin Ohm: First of all, you posit Cintrean-Lurian incompatibility for the deactivation of those sprinklers.
While I agree that certain pieces of Cintrean technology can have anomalous reactions...
with the Talent sensitive machinery of Lurian technology... 
Trinket is NOT Cintrean technology.

Phoenix: ...

Keithra: Mr. Wright... Trinket was created before Hemo entered the Institute...
that means that its core technology is Orion.
Heheh...

HOLD IT!
Phoenix: Ms. Rin Ohm...
I don't see a problem with Trinket not having Cintrean origins...
Mr. Kirskis spent a big amount of time as a student in Iris Academy.

The robot POSSESSES Cintrean technology he implemented later!!

OBJECTION!
Rin Ohm: Since you are so ignorant of the nature of the robot...
in spite of having the literal creator of it as part of your own investigation leading to this trial...
let me give you a rundown on what exactly Trinket is.

Rin Ohm accesses her Great Link system through an hologram.

Rin Ohm: 'Trinket', is a contraption created utilizing rudimentary technology stolen by Orion piracy.
Such technology isn't compatible with the molecular alignment necessary to facilitate Essence Conversion.
What you are quoting is the unfortunate incompatibility that arises when Essence Conversion technology, most typically used by Cintreans...
interacts with the delicate Talent-tuned machinery of Lurian artefacts.

Phoenix: W-Wait, really?
But wouldn't the Cintrean technology added to it still cause that effect?

Keithra: Not necessarily Mr. Wright...
She is talking about what powers Trinket, not what components it has...
Trinket doesn't utilize Essence Conversion altogether...

Phoenix: Oh I see...

Rin Ohm: This discards the possibility of Trinket accidentally causing the mayhem that deactivated those sprinklers at the Utility Room.
Which only leaves us with the other possible, more likely interpretation...
he caused it intentionally!!
